All India Station Masters vs General Manager, Central Railwaysand ... on 20 November, 1959	Case Title
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 126 of 1958. Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, for enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
N. C. Chatterjee and B. V. S. Mani, for the petitioners. B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. 1959. November 20. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.-The petitioners who describe them- selves as Road-side Station Masters challenge in this petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution the constitutionality of the channel of promotion for Guards to higher grade Station Masters' posts as notified in the issue of the Central Railway 'Weekly Gazette No. 3 dated November 23, 1951. Under this Notification Guards have two lines of promotion open to them. One is that by promotion, C grade Guards may become B grade Guards on Rs. 100-185 and thereafter by further promotion A grade Guaids on Rs. 150-225. The second line of promotion open to them is that by an examination described curiously enough as Slip 45 examination C grade Guards are eligible for promotion to posts of Station Masters on RS. 150-225 scale and thereafter to all the further promotions that are open to the Station Masters, viz., higher ,cales of Rs. 200 to Rs. 300, Rs. 260 to Rs. 350, Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 and finally Rs. 360 to Rs. 500; B grade Guards and A grade Guards are also on passing Slip 45 examination eligible for promotion to posts of Station Masters on Rs. 200-300 pay scale and thereafter to further promotions to the higher scales in the Station Masters' line. The Road side Station Masters on pay scale of Rs. 80 to Rs. 170 (the scale was formerly Rs. 64-170) can also reach by promotion the grade of Rs. 150-225 but only after going through an intermediate stage of Rs. 100-185. Similarly Station Masters on Rs. 100-185 scale may also reach the stage of Rs. 200-300 but only after passing through the intermediate stage of Rs. 150-225. Obviously the provisions enabling Guards to become Station Masters on the pay scale of Rs. 150-225 places the Station Masters of Rs. 80-170 scale at a disadvantage as against Guards on that pay scale and also puts the Road-side Station Masters on the pay of Rs. 100-185 pay scale at a disadvantage as against Guards on that scale of pay.	Issue
It was further alleged in the petition that taking advantage of this channel of promotion, Guards become Station Masters on Rs. 150-225 at a very much younger age than Road-side Station Masters and thus block the chances of higher promotion to Road-side Station Masters who reach the Rs. 150-225 scale when they are much older. As instances of how the impugned provisions in the channel of promotion are harmful to the Road-side Station Masters, the petitioners state: that while the petitioner No. 2 even after completing 32 years of service has remained in the grade of Rs. 100-185 as Station Master, Guards of equal status and standing have reached gazetted rank within the same period of service; that whereas the petitioner No, 3 has come by promotion to the grade of Rs. 150225 after putting in 21 years of service, Guards of his standing have risen to the grade of Rs. 360-500 by virtue of the impugned channel of promotion and several of his juniors who entered the Railway service long after him as Guards have superseded him and are working in the grade of Rs. 360-500; that while the petitioner No. 4 having entered into service as Telegraph Candidate and having passed all the requisite examinations prescribed for the higher grade of Station Master within a period of 2 1/2 years after putting in 6 1/2 years of service is still in the grade of Rs. 80-170, Guards of his length of service and departmental qualification are entitled for promotion as an Assistant Station Master in the grade of Rs. 150-225 within about the same length of service.	Facts
The petitioners contend that the channel of promotion in so far as it enables Guards to be promoted as Station Masters in addition to the other line of promotion open to them as Guards amounts to a denial of equal opportunity as between Road-side Station Masters and Guards in the matter of promotion and thus contravenes the provisions of Art. 16(1) of the Constitution.	PetArg
Art. 16(1) of the Constitution is in these words:-
It is not disputed however that Guards once they become Station Masters cease to be Guards and continue as Station Masters. The fact that the qualifications necessary for recruitment as Guards or Station Masters are approximately or even wholly the same can in no way affect the question whether they form one and the same class, or form different classes. As on the admitted facts the Roadside Station Masters and Guards are, as already stated, recruited separately and trained separately and have separate avenues of promotion, the conclusion is irresistible that they form two distinct and separate classes as between whom there is no scope for predicating equality or inequality of opportunity in matters of promotion.	Section
In view of this conclusion it is unnecessary for the purpose of the present case to decide the other question: whether matters of promotion are included in the words " matters relating to employment in Article 16(1) of the Constitution. For even assuming that they are so included, the present application must be rejected on the simple ground that the petitioners belong to a wholly distinct. and separate class from Guards and so there can be no question of equality of opportunity in matters of promotion as between the petitioners and Guards. The learned Counsel for the petitioners stated before us that this channel of promotion for Guards is peculiar to the Central Railways, and is not now to be found in the other Zones of Indian Railways. If that be the position, the matter may well deserve the attention of the Government; but this has nothing to do with the merits of the petition before us.
For the reasons mentioned above, we dismiss the application, but in view of all the circumstances, we order that parties will bear their own costs.
Petition dismissed.	Conclusion
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 126 of 1958. Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, for enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
N. C. Chatterjee and B. V. S. Mani, for the petitioners. B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. 1959. November 20. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.-The petitioners who describe them- selves as Road-side Station Masters challenge in this petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution the constitutionality of the channel of promotion for Guards to higher grade Station Masters' posts as notified in the issue of the Central Railway 'Weekly Gazette No. 3 dated November 23, 1951. Under this Notification Guards have two lines of promotion open to them. One is that by promotion, C grade Guards may become B grade Guards on Rs. 100-185 and thereafter by further promotion A grade Guaids on Rs. 150-225. The second line of promotion open to them is that by an examination described curiously enough as Slip 45 examination C grade Guards are eligible for promotion to posts of Station Masters on RS. 150-225 scale and thereafter to all the further promotions that are open to the Station Masters, viz., higher ,cales of Rs. 200 to Rs. 300, Rs. 260 to Rs. 350, Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 and finally Rs. 360 to Rs. 500; B grade Guards and A grade Guards are also on passing Slip 45 examination eligible for promotion to posts of Station Masters on Rs. 200-300 pay scale and thereafter to further promotions to the higher scales in the Station Masters' line. The Road side Station Masters on pay scale of Rs. 80 to Rs. 170 (the scale was formerly Rs. 64-170) can also reach by promotion the grade of Rs. 150-225 but only after going through an intermediate stage of Rs. 100-185. Similarly Station Masters on Rs. 100-185 scale may also reach the stage of Rs. 200-300 but only after passing through the intermediate stage of Rs. 150-225. Obviously the provisions enabling Guards to become Station Masters on the pay scale of Rs. 150-225 places the Station Masters of Rs. 80-170 scale at a disadvantage as against Guards on that pay scale and also puts the Road-side Station Masters on the pay of Rs. 100-185 pay scale at a disadvantage as against Guards on that scale of pay.
The petitioners contend that the channel of promotion in so far as it enables Guards to be promoted as Station Masters in addition to the other line of promotion open to them as Guards amounts to a denial of equal opportunity as between Road-side Station Masters and Guards in the matter of promotion and thus contravenes the provisions of Art. 16(1) of the Constitution.
It was further alleged in the petition that taking advantage of this channel of promotion, Guards become Station Masters on Rs. 150-225 at a very much younger age than Road-side Station Masters and thus block the chances of higher promotion to Road-side Station Masters who reach the Rs. 150-225 scale when they are much older. As instances of how the impugned provisions in the channel of promotion are harmful to the Road-side Station Masters, the petitioners state: that while the petitioner No. 2 even after completing 32 years of service has remained in the grade of Rs. 100-185 as Station Master, Guards of equal status and standing have reached gazetted rank within the same period of service; that whereas the petitioner No, 3 has come by promotion to the grade of Rs. 150225 after putting in 21 years of service, Guards of his standing have risen to the grade of Rs. 360-500 by virtue of the impugned channel of promotion and several of his juniors who entered the Railway service long after him as Guards have superseded him and are working in the grade of Rs. 360-500; that while the petitioner No. 4 having entered into service as Telegraph Candidate and having passed all the requisite examinations prescribed for the higher grade of Station Master within a period of 2 1/2 years after putting in 6 1/2 years of service is still in the grade of Rs. 80-170, Guards of his length of service and departmental qualification are entitled for promotion as an Assistant Station Master in the grade of Rs. 150-225 within about the same length of service.
The respondents-the General Manager, Central Railways, Bombay, V.T., the Chairman Railway Board, New Delhi and the Union of India,-who contest the application contend that the channel of promotion providing these opportunities to Guards does not in any way contravene the provisions of Art. 16(1) of the Constitution. They also deny the correctness of the allegation that as a result of these opportunities Guards become Station Masters on Rs. 150-225 pay scale at a Younger age than Road-side Station Masters. On the material before us it is not possible to come to a firm conclusion as regards the relative age at which Guards or Road-side Station Masters ordinarily reach the pay scale of Rs. 150-225. Assuming, however, the position to be as stated in the petition, that may only evoke some sympathy for the Road-side Station Masters, but does not in any way affect the decision of the question whether Art. 16(1) of the Constitution is contravened by this channel of promotion.
Art. 16(1) of the Constitution is in these words:-
It is not disputed however that Guards once they become Station Masters cease to be Guards and continue as Station Masters. The fact that the qualifications necessary for recruitment as Guards or Station Masters are approximately or even wholly the same can in no way affect the question whether they form one and the same class, or form different classes. As on the admitted facts the Roadside Station Masters and Guards are, as already stated, recruited separately and trained separately and have separate avenues of promotion, the conclusion is irresistible that they form two distinct and separate classes as between whom there is no scope for predicating equality or inequality of opportunity in matters of promotion.
In view of this conclusion it is unnecessary for the purpose of the present case to decide the other question: whether matters of promotion are included in the words " matters relating to employment in Article 16(1) of the Constitution. For even assuming that they are so included, the present application must be rejected on the simple ground that the petitioners belong to a wholly distinct. and separate class from Guards and so there can be no question of equality of opportunity in matters of promotion as between the petitioners and Guards. The learned Counsel for the petitioners stated before us that this channel of promotion for Guards is peculiar to the Central Railways, and is not now to be found in the other Zones of Indian Railways. If that be the position, the matter may well deserve the attention of the Government; but this has nothing to do with the merits of the petition before us.
For the reasons mentioned above, we dismiss the application, but in view of all the circumstances, we order that parties will bear their own costs.
Petition dismissed.	Total Judgement
