Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd.,And ... vs The Union Of India And Others(And ... on 8 January, 1958	Case Title
Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
AND & CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 699-703 of 1957.
Constitution of the United States of America, Revised and Annotated (1952), U. S. Govt. Printing Office pp. 792,
The Wage Board has exceeded its authority by giving retrospective effect to the wage structure devised by it. This is invalid and ultra vires the Act.
M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. I (The Union of India) in all the Petitions. Before going into the merits of the case it is necessary to examine the background and the perspective in which the Act was enacted, the careful inquiry which preceded its enactment and the conditions which the Act was designed to meet. (Report of the Press Commission, dated July 14, 1954; Report of the Inquiry Committee constituted in 1947; Report of the C. P. and Berar Press Inquiry Committee constituted on March 27, 1948).
[Sinha, J. My point is whether the question has been raised and decided or has it been only assumed ?] The matter, so far as I know, has not been raised and decided. It has only been assumed.
In regard to the decisions of the Wage Board the Court has to consider first, whether the decisions are intra vires the Act-since an authority to whom the power of subordinate legislation is delegated cannot act contrary to the statute, and secondly, do the decisions being a part of the Act in any way contravene the Constitution. These are the only questions which arise in regard to the decisions of the Wage Board. No question arises of its procedure being in accordance with the principles of the natural justice nor of the application of audi alteram partem.
The decision is given retrospective effect from the date of constitution of the Board. The Act itself in s. 13 contemplates interim relief. Instead of granting any interim relief the Board decided to give retrospective effect to its decision.
B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. I in all the appeals.
N. C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji and S. N. Andley, for the Indian Federation of Working Journalists in all appeals, respondent No. 2 in C. A. No. 700 of 1957 and respondent No. B. R. L. Iyengar, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 3 in C. A. 699 of 1957. 1958. March 19. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BHAGWATI J.-These petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution raise the question as to the vires of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscel- laneous Provisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955), hereinafter referred to as "the Act" and the decision of the Wage Board constituted thereunder. As they raise common questions of law and fact they can be dealt with under one common judgment.
sidered the questions as to the tenure of appointment and the minimum period of notice for termination of the employment of the working journalists, hours of work, provision for leave, retirement benefits and gratuity, made certain recommendations and suggested legislation for the regulation of the newspaper industry which should embody its recommendations with regard to (i) notice period; (ii) bonus; (iii) minimum wages; (iv) Sunday rest; (v) leave, and
(vi) provident fund and gratuity.
1. Dailies.
The wage boards appointed by the amended Bombay Industrial- Relations Act, 1946, are subject to the appellate jurisdiction as well as supervisory jurisdiction of the industrial courts in the State and parties affected by their decisions are entitled to file appeals against the same in the industrial courts.	Issue
The classification made by the impugned Act is arbitrary and unreasonable in so far as it removes the newspaper employers vis-a-vis the working journalists from the general operation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
Until now whenever the wage had to be fixed for an industry the relevant consideration had always been the capacity of the industry to pay. The wages which are normally fixed after a general inquiry' applicable to the whole industry have always been minimum wages. Assessment of a wage level and scale only by reference to gross revenue was erroneous. The decision suffers from another major defect in computing gross revenue not for each newspaper but collectively for the Organization which might be running a number of papers. The result of this mode of calculation was that an organisation publishing a large number of papers might well fall within the top class by virtue of its gross revenue although each one of the papers taken individually might be running at a loss. This process of considering the multiple units or a chain of newspapers as one establishment has affected the petitioners adversely and is unauthorised by the Act. The Wage Board was not authorised by the Act to fix the wages of working journalists in relation to the whole industry but could do so only in respect of individual establishments as will appear from the definition of a "
The newspaper industry in India did not originally start as an industry, but started as individual newspapers founded by leaders in the national, political, social and economic fields. During the last half a century, however, it developed characteristics of a profit making industry in which big industrialists invested money and combines controlling several newspapers all over the country also became the special feature of this development. The working journalists except for the comparatively large number that were found concentrated in the big metropolitan cities, were scattered all over the country and for the last ten years and more agitated that some means should be found by which those working in the newspaper industry were enabled to have their wages and salaries, their dearness allowance and other allowances, their retirement benefits, their rules of leave and conditions of service, enquired into by some impartial agency or authority, who would be empowered to fix just and reasonable terms and conditions of service for working journalists as a whole. Isolated attempts were made by the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh Governments in this behalf. On June 18, 1947, the Government of Uttar Pradesh appointed a committee to enquire into the conditions of work of the employees of the newspaper industry in the Uttar Pradesh.
On March 27, 1948, the Government of Central Provinces & Berar also appointed an Inquiry Committee to examine and report on certain questions relating to the general working of the newspaper industry in the province, including the general conditions of work affecting the editorial and other staff of newspapers, their emoluments including dearness allowance, leave, provident fund, pensionary benefits, etc. The Committees aforesaid made their reports on the respective dates March 31, 1949, and March 27, 1948, making certain recommendations. The All-India problem, however, remained to be tackled and during the debate in Parliament on the Constitution (First Amendment) Bill, 1951, the Prime Minister said that he was prepared to appoint a committee or a commission, including representatives of the Press, to examine the state of the Press and its content. He elaborated the idea further on June 1, 1951, when he indicated that an enquiry covering the larger issue of the Press, such as had been carried out in the United Kingdom by the Royal Commission, might be productive of good for the Press and the development of this very important aspect of public affairs. The idea was further discussed during the debate in Parliament on the Press (Incitement to Crimes) Bill, later named the Press (Objectionable Matter) Act, 1952. At its session held in April, 1952, at Calcutta, the Indian Federation of Working Journalists adopted a resolution for the appointment of a Commission to enquire into the condi- tions of the Press in India with a view to improving its place, status and functioning in the new democratic set up. The appointment of the Press Commission was thereafter announced in a Communique issued by the Govt. of India, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, on September 23, 1952, under the Chairmanship of Shri Justice G. S. Rajadhyaksha.
The first meeting of the Board was held on May 26, 1956, in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan at Bombay. Sri Kesava Menon and Shri G. Narasimhan were not present at this meeting. It was a preliminary meeting at which the Board set up a sub- committee consisting Of Shri A. R. Bhat and Shri G. N. Acharya to draft a questionnaire for issue to the various journals and organisations concerned, with a view to eliciting factual data and other relevant information required for the fixation of wages for the working journalists. The sub-committee was requested to hear in mind, while framing the questionnaire the need for: (1) obtaining detailed accounts of newspaper establishments; (2) proper evaluation of the nature of and the work of various categories of working journalists; and (3) proper classification of the country into different areas on the basis of certain criteria like population, cost of living, etc. The questionnaire drafted by the sub-committee was to be finalised by the chairman and circulated to all concerned by the end of June, 1956.
The above decision of the Wage Board was published by the Central Government in the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated May 11, 1957. The Commissioner of Labour, Madras, issued a circular on May 30, 1957, calling upon the managements of all newspaper establishments in the State to send to him the report of the gross revenue for the three years, i. e., 1952, 1953 and 1954, within a period of one month from the date of the publication of the Board's decision, i. e., not later than June 10, 1957. Writ Petition No. 91 of 1957 was thereupon filed on June 13, 1957, by the Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., against the Union of India & others and this petition was followed up by similar petitions filed on August 9, 1957, by the Press Trust of India Ltd., the Indian National Press (Bombay) Private Ltd., and the Saurashtra Trust, being Petitions Nos. 99, 100, and 101 of 1957 respectively. The Hindustan Times Ltd., New Delhi filed on August 23, 1957, a similar petition, being Petition No. 103 of 1957, and three more petitions, being Petitions Nos. 116, 117 and 118 of 1957, were filed by the Loksatta Karyalaya, Baroda, Sandesh Ltd.' Ahmedabad and Jan Satta Karyalaya, Ahmedabad, respectively, on September 18, 1957.
(ii) Sunday Standard, an English Weekly, from three centres- Madras, Bombay and Delhi, (iii) Dinmani, a Tamil Daily from Madras and Madurai, (iv) Dinmani Kadir, a Tamil Weekly from Madras, (v) Lokasatta, a Maratha Daily, and Sunday Lokasatta, a Maratha Weekly, from Bombay, (vi) Screen, an English Weekly from Bombay and (vii) Andhra Prabha, a Telugu Daily and Weekly. The total number of working journalists employed by them are 331, out of whom there are 123 proof readers, as against 1570 who form the other members of the staff. The present emoluments of the working journalists in their employ amount to Rs. 9,77,892, whereas if the decision of the Wage Board were given effect to they would go up to Rs. 15,21,282-12 thus increasing the wage bill of the working journalists annually by Rs. 5,43,390-12. They would also have to pay remuneration to the part-time correspondents on the basis of retainer as well as payment for news items on column basis. That would involve an additional burden of about Rs. 1 lakh a year. The retrospective operation of the Wage Board's decision with effect from May 2, 1956, in their case would further involve a payment of Rs. 5,16,337-20. This would be the extra burden not taking account the liability for past gratuity and the recurring gratuity as awarded under the provisions of the Act and also the increased burden which would have to be borne by reason of the impact of the provisions in regard to reduced hours of working, increase in leave, etc., provided therein. If, moreover, the members of the staff who are not included in the definition of working journalists made similar demands for increasing their emoluments and bettering their conditions of service then there would be an additional burden which is estimated at Rs. 9,92,443-68.
The Press Trust of India Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No. 99 of 1957, are a non-profit making cooperative organization of newspaper proprietors. They employ 820 employees in all, out of whom 170 are working journalists and 650 do not come within that definition. Their total wage bill is Rs. 21,00,000 per year (approximately) out of which the annual salary of the working journalists is Rs. 9,00,000. The ,increase in their wage bill due to increase in the salary of the working journalists as per the decision of the. Wage Board would come to Rs. 4,05,600 and they would have to pay by way of arrears by reason of the retrospective operation of the decision another sum of Rs. 4,05,600 to the working journalists. There would also be an additional financial burden of Rs. 60,000 every year by reason of the recurring increments in the monthly salaries of the working journalists employed by them. If the benefits of the Wage Board decision were extended to the other members of the staff who are not working journalists within the definition of that term but who have also made similar demands on them, a further annual burden would be imposed on the petitioners which is estimated at Rs. 3,90,000. If perchance the petitioners not being able to run their concern except at a loss intended to close down the same, the amount which they would have to pay to the working journalists under the pro- visions of the Act and the decision of the Wage Board would be Rs. 23,68,500 as against the old scale liability of Rs. 11,62,500 and the other members of the staff who do not fall within the category of working journalists would have to be paid a further sum of Rs. 15,50,000. The total liability of the petitioners in such an event would amount to Rs. 39,18,000 as against the old liability of Rs. 27,12,500. The Indian National Press (Bombay) Private Ltd., otherwise known as the Free Press Group, are petitioners in Petition No. 100 of 1957. They publish (i) Free Press Journal, a morning English Daily (ii) Free Press Bulletin, an evening English Daily (iii) Bharat Jyoti, an English Weekly (iv) Janashakti, a morning Gujarati Daily and (v) Navashakthi, a Marathi Dailyall from Bombay. They employ 442 employees including part-time correspondents out of whom 65 are working journalists and 21 are proof readers and the rest form members of the other staff not falling within the category of working journalists. The effect of the decision of the Wage Board would be that there would have to be an immediate payment of Rs. 1,73,811 by reason of the retrospective operation of the decision and there will also be an annual 'increase in the wage bill to the same extent, i. e., Rs. 1,73,811. There will also be a yearly recurring increase to the extent of Rs. 22,470 and also corresponding increase for contribution to the provident fund on account of increase in salary. Under the provisions of the Act in regard to reduced hours of work, and increase in leave, moreover, there will be an increase in liability to pay Rs. 90,669 and Rs. 29,806 respectively, in the case of working journalists, besides the liability for past gratuity in another sum of Rs. 1,08,534 and recurring annual liability for gratuity in a sum of Rs. 17,995. If similar benefits would have to be given to the other members of the staff who do not fall within the definition of working journalists the annual burden would be increased by a sum of Rs. 1,80,000. This would be the position by reason of the petitioners being classified and treated as a chain of newspapers and having been classified as " A " class newspaper establishment on a total computation of the gross revenue of all their units. If they were not so treated and the component units were classified on their individual gross revenue the result would be that the Free Press Journal, the Free Press Bulletin and the Bharat Jyoti would fall within class " A ", and Navashakti would fall within class " C "
The petitioners in Petition No. 116 of 1957 are the Loksatta Karyalaya, Baroda, which publish the Loksatta, a Gujarati Daily from Baroda. They employ 15 working journalists. The annual wage bill of working journalists would have to be increased by reason of the decision of the Wage Board by Rs. 10,800; the burden of payment of retrospective liability being Rs. 9,600. Moreover, there will be a recurring annual burden of Rs. 6,340 inclusive of the expenditure involved by reason of the provisions as to (i) Notice pay, (ii) Gratuity, (iii) Retrenchment compensation and (iv) Extra burden of reduced hours of work and increased leave. The Sandesh Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No. 117 of 1957, otherwise styled, the Sandesh Group, Ahmeda bad, publish (i) Sandesh, a morning Gujarati Daily, (ii) Sevak, an evening Gujarati Daily, (iii) Bal Sandesh, a Gujarati Weekly, and (iv) Aram, and (v) Sat Sandesh, Gujarati Monthlies-all from Ahmedabad. They employ a total staff of 205 employees out of whom there are 11 working journalists, 7 proof readers and the rest 187 constitute the other members of the staff. The increase in the wage bill of the working journalists under the provisions of the Act would be Rs. 24,807 per year besides a similar liability for Rs. 24,807 by reason of the retrospective operation of the decision. There will be an increase in expenditure to the tune of Rs. 30,900 by reason of the reduced working hours and increase in leave and holidays, a liability of Rs. 31, 597 for past gratuity and Rs. 24,807 every year for recurring gratuity as also Rs. 1,530 for recurring increase in wages of the working journalists. The financial burden in the case of proof-readers who are included in the definition of working journalists tinder the terms of the Act would be Rs. 5,724 per year. If similar benefits were to be given to the other members of the staff who are not working journalists the annual increase in the burden will be Rs. 1,89,816. The total costs of closing down if such an eventuality' were contemplated would be Rs. 1,08,997 for the working journalists only as against a liability of Rs. 22,755 on the old basis. The other members of the staff would have to be paid Rs. 1,46,351 and the total cost of closing down the whole concern would thus conic to Rs. 2,55,349 under the new dispensation as against Rs. 1,69,106 as of old. The Jansatta Karyalaya, Ahmedabad, petitioners in Petition No. 118 of 1957 bring out (i) Jansatta, a Gujarati Daily and
(ii) Chandni a Gujarati Monthly from Ahmedabad. They employ 15 working journalists, 6 proof-readers and 87 other members of the staff thus making a total number of 108 employees. The increase in the wage-bill of the working journalists would come to Rs. 29,808. The liability for past gratuity would be Rs. 6,624 and the recurring annual gratuity would be Rs. 2,303 and the annual recurring increase in wages would come to Rs. 2,280. The financial burden in case of proof-readers would be Rs. 6,480 per year as per the decision of the Wage Board. If similar benefits had to be given to the other members of the staff who are non-working journalists the annual burden will increase by Rs. 48,720. The total cost of closing down, if such a contingency ever arose, would come to Rs. 1,00,798 under the provisions of the Act and the Wage Board decision as against Rs. 45,206 on the old basis.
The principles which emerge from the above discussion are:	Facts
988). If the impugned Act is viewed as a whole it will appear that it authorised the fixation of salary of working journalists at a level which disables the running of the press. The impugned Act thus, impedes, controls and prohibits the free employment of the agencies of expression on that section of the Press which form its vocal chord and therefore the Act infringes the freedom contemplated under Art. 19 (1) (a) and is not saved by Art. 19 (2). In judging the validity of the enactment it must be tested by its operation and effect (Dwarkadas Srinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., [1954] S. C. R. 674, 683; Minnesota Ex Rel. Olson, 75 L. Ed. 1357). The Act also violates the right guaranteed by Art. 19 (1)
The decision of the Wage Board has been arrived at in violation of the procedure prescribed by s. 11 of the impugned Act and in violation of the rules of natural justice and is thus illegal.
By disregarding the disparity in regional conditions the Wage Board has discriminated between paper and paper, employer and employer and employee and employee. S. P. Sinha, Gurbachan Singh, Harbans Singh and R. Patnaik, for the petitioners in Petition No. 103 of 1957. S. S. Shukla, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos. 116 to 118 of 1957.
R. Ganapathy Iyer and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the' appellants in C. A. No. 699 of 1957.
L. K. Jha, S. S. Shukla and R. J. Joshi, for the appellants in C. A. Nos. 700 to 702 of 1957.
S. P. Sinha, Harbans Singh and R. Patnaik, for the appellants in C. A. No. 703 of 1957.
5. Classification of newspaper establishments should be based on the average gross revenue of the three-year period, 1952, 1953 and 1954.
29. Fitment of employees:-For fitment of the present employees into the new scales, service in a particular grade and category and in the particular newspaper establishment alone should be taken into account.
All these petitions filed by the several petitioners as above followed a common pattern. After succinctly reciting the history of the events narrated above which led to the enactment of the impugned Act and the decision of the Wage Board, they challenged the vires of the Act and the decision of the Wage Board. The vires of the Act was challenged on the ground that the provisions thereof were violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution under Art. 19(1)(a), Art. 19(1)(g), and Art. 14 ; but in the course of the argu- ments before us another Article, viz., Art. 32 was also added as having been infringed by the Act. The decision of the Wage Board was challenged on various grounds which were in pari materia with the objections that had been urged by the representatives of the employers in the Wage Board in their minute of dissent above referred to. It was also contended that the implementation of the decision would be beyond the capacity of the petitioners and would result in their titter collapse. The reply made by the respondents was that none of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a), Art. 19(1)(g), Art. 14 and/or Art. 32 were infringed by the impugned Act, that the functions of the Wage Board were not judicial or quasijudicial in character, that the fixation of the rates of wages was a legislative act and not a judicial one, that the decision of the Wage Board bad been arrived at after taking into consideration all the criteria for fixation of wages under s. 9(1) of the Act and the material as well as the evidence led before it, that a considerable portion of the decisions recorded by the Wage Board were unanimous, that the Wage Board had the power and authority also to fix the scales of wages and to give retrospective operation to its decision, and that the financial position of the petitioners was not such as to lead to their collapse as a result of the impact of the provisions of the impugned Act and the decision of the Wage Board.
Provincial Governments consider that the minimum wage can at present be only a bare subsistence wage. In fact, even one important All-India Organisation of employees has suggested that " a minimum wage is that wage which is sufficient to cover the bare physical needs of a worker and his family." Many others,'; however.......... consider that a minimum wage should also provide for some other essential requirements such as a minimum of education, medical facilities and other amenities. We consider that a minimum wage must provide not merely for the bare sustenance of life but for the preservation of the efficiency of the worker. For this purpose, the minimum wage must also provide for some measure of education, medical requirements, and amenities.
points at issue would have to be' arrived at by the wage boards and the wage boards could only do so after collecting proper data and materials and hearing evidence in that behalf. If the functions performed by the wage board would thus consist of the determination of the issues as between a proposition and an opposition on data and materials gathered by the board in answers to the questionnaire issued to all parties interested and the evidence led before it, there is no doubt that there would be imported in the proceedings of the wage board a duty to act judicially and the functions performed by the wage board would be quasijudicial in character. It has been on the other hand urged before us by the learned counsel for the respondents that the very constitution of the wage boards is against the fundamental principle of jurisprudence which postulates that no man should be a judge in his own cause. It was laid down by the House of Lords in Franklin v. Minister of Town and Country Planning (1) at p. 103:
It was next contended that the restrictions imposed on newspaper establishments under the terms of the impugned Act were unreasonable in so far as they would have the effect of destroying the business of the petitioners and would therefore exceed the bounds of permissible legislation under Art. 19(6). It was urged that the right to impose reasonable restrictions on the petitioners' right to carry on business did not empower the legislature to destroy the business itself and reliance was placed in support of this proposition on Stone v. Farmers Loan and Trust Co. (1), where it was observed:-
(C) Because the decision was ultra vires the Act. See Pandit Ram Narain v. State of Uttar Pradesh & ors. (4) ]. The decision of the Wage Board before us cannot be challenged on the grounds that the impugned Act under which the decision is made is ultra vires or that the decision itself infringes the fundamental rights of the petitioners. In the circumstance&, the challenge must be confined only to the third ground, viz., that the decision is ultra vires the Act itself.
It is further urged that in the whole of the questionnaire which was addressed by the Wage Board to the newspaper establishments, there was no concrete proposal which was submitted by the Wage Board to them for their consideration. The only question which was addressed in this behalf was Question No. 4 in Part "A" which asked the newspaper establishments whether the basic minimum wage, dearness allowance and metropolitan allowance suggested by the Press Commission were acceptable to them and if not, what variations would they suggest and why. The question as framed would not necessarily focus the attention of the newspaper establishments to any proposal except the one which was the subject-matter of that question, viz., the	PetArg
agreements, arbitrators, and adjudicators could at best be treated, like the minimum wage, as the starting point and that wherever the capacity of an industry to pay a higher wage is established, such a higher wage should be deemed to be the fair wage. The minimum a wage should have no regard to the capacity of an industry to pay and should be based solely on the requirements of the worker and his family. "
the recommendations have to be submitted to the Lieutenant Governor who issues orders.
consequential upon the detention of the detenu and therefore upheld the validity of the order. It was, therefore, urged by the learned Attorney-General that the object of the impugned Act was only to regulate certain conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in the newspaper establishments and not to take away or abridge the right of freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the petitioners and that therefore the impugned Act could not come within the prohibition of Art. 19 (1) (a) read with. Art. 13 (2) of the Constitution.
The period of six months, in the case of an editor, and three months, in the case of any other working journalists prescribed under s. 3(2) of the impugned Act was therefore not open to any serious objection.	RespArg
(g) of the Constitution as it places unreasonable restraint on the petitioners' freedom to carry on business (Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1950] S. C. R. 759; cited with approval in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, [1954] S. C. R. 803 and Ch. Tika Ramjidas v. State of U. P. [1956] S. C. R. 393; The State of Madras v. V. G. Row, [1952] S. C. R. 597, 606-607; The State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose, [1954] S. (C. R. 587; Virendra v. State of Punjab, A. 1. R. 1957 S. C.
The Act is discriminatory in character and violates Art. 14 of the Constitution. It gives the working journalists a more favoured treatment as compared to other employees in several ways, statutory benefits by ,way of retrenchment compensation, gratuity, limitation of the hours of work and leave, not enjoyed by others in comparable employments. It is restricted in its scope to a selected section of newspaper employees. it gives them the benefit of the wage fixation by devising machinery in the form of a Pay Commission without the existence of any industrial dispute, without prescribing the major criterion of capacity to pay to be taken into consideration; (Britannia Bldg. and Iron Co. Ltd., (1954) 1 L. L. J. 651, 654; Union Drug Co. Ltd., (1954) 1 L. L. J. 766, 767; Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, pp. 13-15, paras. 21, 23 and
The Wage Board has given its decision in complete disregard of the newspapers' capacity to pay. it did not take proper care in framing its decision. Lack of such care in framing its decision makes it unreasonable and hence restrictive of fundamental rights.
Regarding alleged infringement of Art. 19(1)(a), I submit that the legislation should be examined in order to determine whether it is legislation directly in respect to the fundamental rights mentioned in the Constitution. The principle enunciated by the Supreme Courtney several decisions is that when a legislation is attacked on the round of contravention of a fundamental right, the Court must first examine whether it directly deals with the fundamental right. If the legislation is not one directly with respect to a fundamental right no further question arises, (A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 88, per Kania, C. J., Ram Singh v. State of Delhi, [1951] S.C.R. 451, 455). The Supreme Court has also in this connection invoked the doctrine of "pith and substance ". The fact that a legislation, directed in its path and substance to regulate gambling, incidentally placed certain restrictions on business was held not to make the law violative of the fundamental right to carry on business. (State of Bombay v. R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala, [1957] S. C. R.
874). The provisions of the Act are clearly designed to regulate the conditions of service of journalists and not the freedom of expression or speech, and therefore no question of the infringement of fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(a) arises. The contention of the petitioners based on American decisions, e. g., Minnesota Ex Rel. Olson (75 L. Ed. 1357) cannot be sustained. First, the provisions of the American Constitution are substantially different; secondly, the American Courts have adopted the same view as our Supreme Court in A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 88, and other cases. (The Associated Press v. The National Labour Relations Board, 81 L. Ed. 953,960- 966; Mabee v. White Plains Publishing Co., 90 L. Ed. 607, 613-where application of U. S. Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938, to newspaper undertakings was held not to infringe freedom of speech; Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling, 90 L. Ed. 614, 621; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 87 L. Ed. 1292).
[Gajendragadkar, J.-True, but in marching to that goal we have to consider the capacity to pay.] Yes, capacity to pay region-wise and capacity to pay country-wise but not capacity to pay unit-wise, that is, according to each newspaper's capacity.
There is nothing unusual or arbitrary in leaving to the Wage Board a wide discretion in the matter of its procedure. In U. K. the Central Co-ordinating Committee under the Wage Councils Act, 1945, and the Agricultural Wages Board under the Agricultural Wages Regulation Act, 1924, are authorised to regulate their own proceedings. No formal procedure has been prescribed for Wage Boards in Australia. The inclusion of proofreaders in the definition of "Working Journalist" in s. 2(1) of the Act is not unreasonable. Proof-readers occupy a very important position in the editorial staff of a newspaper (Kemsley- Manual of Journalism, p. 337, B. Sen Gupta-Journalism as a Career (1955 Edn.). There is nothing unreasonable in the period of notice for retrenchment in s. 3(2) of the Act. (Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 22, p. 150, para. 249 foot-note (e)). The retrospective operation of compensation in certain cases given by s. 4 of the Act is designed to meet the few cases of retrenchment by the management anticipating the implementation of the recommendation of the Press Commission and cannot be said to be unreasonable. There is nothing unusual in s. 5 of the Act which provides for a gratuity. Gratuity is recognised by Industrial Tribunals (Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, [1955] L. A. C. 155, 158; Nundydroog Mines Ltd., [1956] L. A. C. 265, 267). Under the law of various countries payment of indemnity to an employee who voluntarily resigns is provided for (Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in the World Today (1957) UNESCO publication at p. 404 ; Collective Agreement between the Geneva Press Association and the Geneva Union of Newspaper Publishers dated April 1, 1948). Even in India Labour Courts have awarded gratuity on voluntary resignation (Cipla Ltd., (1955) 11 L. L. J. 355, 358; Indian Oxygen and Acetylene Co. Ltd., (1956) 1 L. L. J.
[Bhagwati, J.-They say it is contrary to the principles of natural justice-audi alteram partem.] That is a maxim about which we have heard so much. It has, no application to this case of delegated legislation. [Bhagwati, J.-Can it not be urged, having regard to s. 11, that the Legislature did not contemplate that the Wage Board was to function as delegated authority because it gives the choice of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act being followed by the Board ?] No, even for a subordinate legislative authority there are procedures to be followed for arriving at certain conclusions.
[Kapur, J.-Is it not necessary to hear everybody who may be affected by the decisions of the Board ?] No question of hearing arises. It is a question of a subordinate legislative authority gathering such information as it wants and it is obliged to take into consideration all the relevant circumstances.
Certiorari and prohibition lie only in respect of judicial or quasi-judicial acts. (Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn. Vol. 11, p. 55, para. 114). The principle audi alteram partem also applies only to judicial or quasi- judicial proceedings. (Patterson v. Dist. Commr. of Accrator, [1948] A. C. 341). For a distinction between judicial and legislative functions, See Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 8th Edn. Vol. 1, p. 185; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Co. Ltd., 211 U.S. 210, 226-227, Per Holmes J.; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 57 L. Ed. 1479, 1482; Louisville and Nashville Railroad Co. v. Green Garrett, 58 L. Ed. 229, 239). The functions of the Wage Board in the United Kingdom have been characterised by writers as legislative in character. (Robson's Justice and Administrative Law, 3rd Edn. p. 608; Griffith's Principles of Administrative Law, p. 39; Barbara Wootton, Social Foundations of Wage Policy, Modern methods of Wage determination, p. 88). This is also the case in Australia. (Federated Saw Mills Case, 8 C. L. R. 465; Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation v. Whybrow and Co., 10 C. L. R. 266, 289, 317, per Isaacs, J.). The Labour and Industry Act, 1953, of Victoria (Australia) in s. 39 (2) gives statutory recognition to the decisions in 8 C. L. R. 365 and 10 C. L. R. 266, by providing that every determination shall have force, validity and effect as if enacted in the Act. The very constitution of the Wage Board under the impugned Act, with an equal number of representatives of employers and employees with an independent chairman is against its being judicial or quasi- judicial in character, for, no man should be judge in his own cause. (Franklin v. Minister of Town and Country Planning, [1948] A. C. 87, 103).
In examining the decisions of the Wage Board the Court will attach to them the same consideration and weight as to a decision by a legislature. (Pacific States Box and Basketing Co. v. White, 80 L. Ed. 138; 296 U. S. 170).
N. C. Chatterjee, A. S. R. Chari, S. Viswanathan,A. N. Sinha, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the Indian Federation of Working Journalists in all the Petitions, and for the ]Delhi Union of Journalists in Petition No. 103 of 1957. It is open to Parliament to delegate to the Wage Board the power to legislate with regard to certain subjects. The so-called decision of the Wage Board was a valid exercise of such power by a subordinate legislative body functioning under specified conditions under Parliamentary mandate with the limits prescribed by the Constitution.
Even if the Wage Board is held to be a quasijudicial body, it acted according to the principle of audi alteram partem and no prerogative writ should be issued to disturb findings arrived at by such a body.
[Sinha, J. All these criticisms would be out of place if it is held that the work of the Wage Board was legislative and not judicial].
Fixation of scales of wages on the basis of grossrevenue without taking into account the liability of newspapers is a devastating doctrine in industrial relations. The Wage Board is not a sub-legislative body; but even if it is, it has to act judicially and is subject to writs of certiorari. Even if its decisions become assimilated in the Act it must be considered to be a quasi-judicial body, since it is expected to carry out a preliminary investigation before recording its findings.
The functions of the Wage Board cannot be characterised either exclusively legislative or exclusively judicial. The functions performed by administrative agencies do not fall in water tight compartments. They may be partly legislative, partly judicial and partly administrative (Stason and Cooper, Cases and other Materials on Administrative Tribunals). The Court has to consider whether the administrative agency performs a predominantly legislative or judicial function and determine its character accordingly (Village of Saratoga Springs v. Saratoga Gas Electric Light and Power Co., (1908) 191 New York 123 People ex rel. Central Park North and East River Co. v. Willcox, (1909) 194 New York 383). In the United Kingdom the decisions of the Wage Councils in the shape of wage regulations proposal acquires legislative character from the order made by the Minister giving effect to the proposals. In Australia the Factories and Shops Act, 1905, and the Labour and Industry Act, 1953, Section 39(2) of Victoria by express provision invests the determination of the Special Board with the characteristics of a legislative act. Under the Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938, of U. S. A. the Wage orders ultimately approved by the Administrator are subject to judicial review. In India under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, the recommendations of the Committees are forwarded to the appropriate Government who by notification as a token of approval, in the official Gazette, fix minimum wages in respect of each scheduled employment. Under the recent amendment of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946, the Wage Boards constituted under the Act are to follow the procedure of the Industrial Court in respect of arbitration proceedings and it cannot be said that they perform any legislative function. The Wage Board under the impugned Act, in spite of its being an administrative body or sub- legislative body may nevertheless be exercising quasi- judicial functions if certain conditions are fulfilled (Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, pp. 55-56; Rex v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee, Ex-parte R. A. Brand and Co. Ltd., [1952] 2 Q. B. 413, 428; Rex v. The London County Council, Ex-parte the Entertainments Protection Association Ltd., [1931] 2 K. B. 215, 233-234; Board of Edu- cation v. Rice, [1911] A. C. 179,182; Allen C. K. Law and Order - 1956 Edn., pp. 102, 256, 257).
A. S. R. Chari, S. Viswanathan, B. R. L. Iyengar,J. B. Dadachanji and S. N. Andley, for the Federation of Press Trust of India Employees' Union, Bombay Union of Journalists and Gujrat Working Journalists Union.
The terms of reference inter alia were:-
readers as a class could not be regarded as working journalists, for there were proof-readers even in presses doing job work. It came to the conclusion that if a person had been employed as a proof-reader only for the purpose of making him a more efficient sub-editor, then it was obvious that even while he was a proof-reader, he should be regarded as a working journalist but in all other instances, he would not be counted as a journalist but as a member of the press staff coming within the purview of the Factories Act. The question of the emoluments payable to working journalists, was discussed by it in paragraphs 538 and 539 of its report:
It considered therefore that there should be a certain minimum wage paid to a journalist. The possible impact of such a minimum wage was also considered by it and it was considered not unlikely that the fixation of such a minimum wage may make it impossible for small papers to continue to exist as such but it thought that if a newspaper could not afford to pay the minimum wage to the employee which would enable him to live decently and with dignity, that newspaper had no business to exist. It recommended division of localities for taking into account the differential cost of living in different parts of India, and determining what should be the reasonable minimum wage in respect of each area. It endorsed the concept of a minimum wage which has been adopted. by the Bank Award:-
At the outset the Board pointed out that except where the question itself indicated a different period or point of time, the reporting period for purposes of parts " B " and "
In part B " which was to be answered by newspapers were included under the heading Accounts :-
3. For purposes of classification, revenue from all sources of a newspaper establishment, should be taken for ascertaining gross revenue.
4. Classification of Newspaper Establishments:
Wages, scales and grades: (as agreed to by the majority) were as under: Working journalists of different groups employed in different classes of newspaper establishments should be paid the following basic wages per mensem.
30. In no case should the present emoluments of the employees be reduced as a; result of the operation of this decision.
35. When a newspaper establishment is re-classified as per para. 6 supra, the existing pay of the staff should be protected. But future increments and scales should be those applicable to the class of paper into which it falls.
In the minute of dissent recorded by the representatives of the employers they started with an expression of regret that the conditions in the newspaper industry did not Permit them to accept the majority view. They expressed their opinion that the fixation of rates of wages should be governed by the following criteria:
(g)As regards chains and groups the criterion for classification adopted by the majority was unfair and unnatural. The total gross revenue of all the units in a chain or a group gave an unreal picture of its capacity to pay.
The note of the chairman was meant to explain the reasons of the decisions which he stated he at least had in view and some of which were accepted unanimously and others were accepted by some members and thereby became majority decisions. At the outset the chairman explained that most of the recommendations of the Press Commission were intended for the betterment of the economic condition of small and medium newspapers, such as price page schedule, telescopic rates for Government advertisements and their fair distribution among newspapers, statutory restrictions on malpractices so as to eliminate cutthroat competition and fixation of news agency tariff,-, which still remained to be implemented and there had been no stability in the prices of newsprint which constituted a considerable proportion of the expenditure of a newspaper. These circumstances had necessitated the fixing of a minimum wage lower than that recommended by the Press Commission.
As regards fixation of the rates of wages, the chairman observed:
The chairman then proceeded to observe:
The Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No. 91 of 1957, otherwise termed the " Express Group ", are the biggest chain in the newspaper world in India. They publish (i) Indian Express, an English Daily, from Madras, Bombay, Delhi and Madurai,
The concept of the living wage:
The Royal Commission on the Basic Wage for the Commonwealth of Australia approved of this course and proceeded through norms and budget enquiries to ascertain what the minimum of health and comfort level should be. The commission quoted with approval the description of the minimum of health and comfort level in the following terms:
Writing practically in the same language, the United Provinces Labour Enquiry Committee classified level of living standard in four categories, viz.,
(iv) the comfort level, and chose the subsistence plus. level as the basis of what it called the "minimum living wage". The Bombay Textile Labour Inquiry Committee, 1937, considered the living wage standard at considerable length and, while accepting the concept of the living wage as described above, observed as follows:
The Committee then proceeded through the use of norms and standard budgets to lay down what the basic wage should be, so that it might approximate to the living, wage standard "
This is the concept of the " minimum wage " adopted by the Committee on Fair Wages. There are however variations of that concept and a distinction has been drawn, for instance, in Australian industrial terminology between the basic wage and the minimum wage.-
pay. If an industry is unable to pay to its workmen at least a bare minimum wage it has no right to exist. As was observed by us in Messrs. Crown Aluminium Works v. Their Workmen (1):
The concept of the fair wage:
Fixation of Scales of Wages:-
Similar observations were made in the case of the Union Drug Co. Ltd.(1):
The capacity of the industry to pay:
The Bombay Textile Labour Inquiry Committee came to the conclusion that it was not possible to define the term "capacity to pay" in -a precise manner and observed as follows:
As regards the measure of the capacity again there are two points of view in regard to the same:
in 1896 as a means of directly regulating wages -and working conditions in industries subject to " sweating ", and was not intended to control industrial relations as such.
51, 52.
effective decisions being reached in the event of the votes of the employers' and workers' representatives being equally divided. Such independent persons should, as far as possible, be selected in agreement with or after consultation with the employers' and workers' representatives on the wage fixing body.
Principles for guidance.
In the United States of America the Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938 enunciates certain principles for the guidance of the industry committees which are convened by the Administrator under the Act:
The distinction between a legislative and a judicial function is thus brought out in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 8th Edn., Vol. 1, ch. V under the caption of "
The following classic passage from the opinion of Holmes, J., in Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co. Ltd., (1), is very apposite in this context:
looks, to the future and changes existing conditions by making a new rule, to be applied thereafter to all or some part of those subject to its power. The establishment of a rate is the making of a rule for the future, and therefore, is an act legislative not judicial in kind....................................................... That question depends not upon the character of the body, but upon the character of the proceedings.
(See also Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co. (1) and Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Green Garrett (2) A practical difficulty however arises in thus characterising the functions as legislative or judicial because the functions performed by administrative agencies do not fall within watertight compartments. Stason and Cooper in their treatises on " Cases and other materials on Administrative Tribunals" point out:
This difficulty is solved by the Court considering I in a proper case whether the administrative agency performs a predominantly legislative or judicial or administrative function and determining its character accordingly. (Vide:
Griffith's Principles of Administrative Lam, contains the following passage at p. 39:
Barbare Wootton in " Social Foundations of Wage Policy; Modern Methods of Wage Determination makes the following observations at p. 88:
representative members of the latter are chosen from within the industry concerned, whereas employers and workers on arbitration tribunal come from outside the industry whose disputes they have to resolve; if in any case technical knowledge of a particular industry is required, this is normally supplied by the help of assessors who take no part in the final award. This difference between the constitution of wage boards and that of arbitration tribunals clearly implies a corresponding distinction between the legislative function of the former and the judicial function of the latter. The wages board drafts laws for its own industry, whereas the arbitration court gives judgment on matters submitted by others. The choice of industrial arbitrators unconnected with the industries the merits of whose claims they must pledge, is evidently intended as a guarantee that they, like other judges, will be free from bias arising from personal interest ". The High Court of the Commonwealth of Australia has taken a similar view in Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation v. Whybrow & Co. (1), in discussing an award made by the wages board empowered by a State statute to fix minimum rates of wages. The test applied for determining the character of that function may be stated in the words of Issacs J. at p. 318:
rights asserted, nor a future rule of conduct prescribed, but merely a fact ascertained necessary for the practical effectuation of admitted rights, the proceeding, though called an arbitration, is rather in the nature of an appraisement or ministerial act. "
(See also the decision of this Court in Nagendra Nath Bora v. Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam (1). In order therefore to determine whether an administrative body is exercising a quasi-judicial function, it would be necessary to examine in the first instance, whether it has to decide on evidence between a proposal and an opposition and secondly, whether it is under a duty to act judicially in the matter of arriving at its decision.
in each case in the light of the circumstances of the particular case and the construction of the particular statute, with the assistance of the general principles already set out." (Ibid, para. 115).
The decision in R. v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee Ex parte R. A. Brand & Co. Ltd. (1), lays down when an administrative body can be said to have a duty to act judicially:
standing that such a tribunal is entitled to act on its own knowledge and information, without evidence unless submitted, and without a hearing except on notice from a party; see Rex v. Brighton. and Area Rent Tribunal (1).
There is considerable force in these contentions, but (1) [1948] A.C. 87,102.
Resulting Conception of Freedom of the Press:
Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. The State, of Delhi (4) was the next case which came up for decision before this Court and it concerned the constitutionality of section 7 (i) (e) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949. It was a provision for the imposition of pre-censorship on a journal. Patanjali Sastri J. (as he then was) (1) [1950] S.C.R- 594, 597.
(3) (1937) 303 U-S- 444 ; 82 L. Ed. 949.
(4) [1950] S.C.R. 605, 6o8.
who delivered the majority judgment observed at p. 608:-
These are the only two decisions of this Court which involve the interpretation of Art. 19 (1) (a) and they only lay down that the freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas which freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation and that the liberty of the press is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression and that liberty of the press consists in allowing no previous restraint upon publication. There is however, a considerable body of authority to be found in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America bearing on this concept of the freedom of speech and expression. Amendment I of that Constitution lays down:
It is trite to observe that the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression enshrined in Art. 19(1)(a) of our Constitution is based on these provisions in Amendment I of the Constitution of the United States of America and it would be therefore legitimate and proper to refer to those decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America in order to appreciate the true nature, scope and extent of this right in spite of the warning administered by this Court against the use of American and other cases, (Vide State of Travancore-Cochin & Ors. v. Bombay Co.
Ltd. (1) and State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (2). Grosjean v. American Press Co. (3), was a case where a statute imposed a license tax on the business of publishing advertisements and it was observed at p. 668:
It was also observed there at p. 965:
918. (3) (1935) 297 U.S. 233, 249; go L. Ed. 66o, 668. (4) (1936) 30I U.S. 103. 136; 81 L. Ed. 953. 963. (5) (1939) 308 U-S- 147; 84 L. Ed. 155, 164.
streets. In the course of its decision the Court made the following observations at p. 164:
Non-interference by the State with this right was emphasized in Thomas v. Collins (1) at p. 448:-
The dissenting opinion of Douglas J. in Beauharnais v. Illinois(2) contains the following at p. 943:
The press is however, not immune from. the ordinary forms of taxation for support of the Government nor from the application of the general laws relating to industrial relations. It was observed in Grosjean v. American Press Co. (1):
(1) (1935) 297 U-S- 233, 249; 80 L. Ed. 660, 668.
In The Associated Press v. National Labour Relations Board (1), it was held that the freedom of the press safeguarded by the First Amendment was not abridged by the application in the case of an editor employed by the Associated Press to determine the news value of the items received and to rewrite them for transmission to members of the association throughout the United States who must function without bias and prejudice, of the provisions of the National Labour Relations Act which inhibited an employer from discharging an employee because of union activities. It was further observed at p. 960:
Murdock v. Pennsylvania (2), was a case of a license fee for the sale of religious books and Mr. Justice Frankfurter in his dissenting opinion at p. 1311 observed:
In Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling (1), and in Mabee v. White Planis Publishing Co. (4) the Federal Fair Labour Standards Act was held applicable to the press and it was observed in the former case at p. 621:
The Constitution of the United States of America--Analysis and Interpretation-Prepared by the Legislative Reference Service, Library of Congress, summarises the position thus at p. 792 :
The Laws regulating payment of wages have similarly been held as not abridging the freedom of speech and expression and the following observations in the same publication (at p. 988) in regard to the Minimum Wage Laws are apposite:
Such laws would not be saved by Art. 19(2) of the Constitution. This Court had occasion to consider the scope of Art. 19(2) in Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. The State of Delhi (1), where Fazl Ali J. in his dissenting judgment observed at p. 619.
It was contended before us by the learned Attorney-General that it was only legislation directly dealing with the right mentioned in Art. 19 (1) (a) that was protected by it. If the legislation was not a direct legislation on the subject " Art. 19 (1) (a) would have no application, the test being not the effect or result of legislation but its subject- matter. In support of his contention he relied upon the following observations of Kania C. J. in A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras (1).
This opinion was expressed by Kania C. J. alone, the other learned judges forming the Bench not expressing themselves on this question. This passage was, however cited, with approval by a Bench of this Court in Ram Singh & Ors. v. The State of Delhi (1). It was held by the Full Court in that case that though personal liberty is sufficiently comprehensive to include the freedoms enumerated in Art. 19 (1) and its deprivation would result in the extinction of these freedoms, the Constitution his treated these constitutional liberties as distinct fundamrntal rights and made separate provisions in Arts. 19, 21 and 22 ,is to the limitations and conditions subject to which alone they could be taken away or abridged. Consequently, even though a law which restricts the freedom of speech and expression is not directed solely against the, undermining of security of the State or its overthrow but is concerned generally in the interests of public order may not fait within the reservation of cl. (2) of Art. 19 and may therefore be void, an order of preventive detention cannot be held to be, invalid merely because:
It was contended, on the other hand, on behalf of the petitioners that the Court has got to look at the true nature and character of the legislation and judge its substance and not its form, or in other words, its effect and operation. It was pointed out that the impugned Act viewed as a whole was one to regulate the employment of the necessary organs of newspaper publications and therefore related to the freedom of the Press and as such came within the prohibition. Reliance was placed in this behalf on the following passage in Minnesota Ex Rel. Olson (1):
The following observations of Mahajan J. (as he then was) in Dwarkadas Shrinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co., Ltd. (2) were also relied upon:
The test of reasonable restrictions which can be imposed on the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 19(1)(g) has been laid down by this Court in two decisions:
of the right should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public. The word " reasonable " implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is, the choice of a course which reason dictates. Legislation which arbitrarily or excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom guaranteed in article 19(1)(g), and the social control permitted by clause (6) of article 19, it must be held to be wanting in that quality." [cited with approval in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. (1) and in Ch. Tika Ramji v. State of' Uttar Pradesh & Ors. (2) ].
The State of Madras v. V. G. Rao (3) was the next case in which this phrase came to be considered by this Court and Patanjali Sastri C. J. observed at p. 606:-
of the imposition, the prevailing conditions at the time, should all enter into the judicial verdict." This criterion was approved of in State of West Benqal v. Subodh Gopat Bose & Others (1) where the present Chief Justice further expressed his opinion that the fact of the statute being given retrospective operation may also be properly taken into consideration in determining the reasonableness of the restriction imposed in the interest of the general public [see also a recent decision of this Court in Virendra v. State of Punjab (2)].
Similar observations of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in-the Municipal Corporation of the City of Toronto v. Virgo (2) and the Attorney General for Ontario v. Attorney General for the Dominion (3) were also relied upon and particularly the following observations in the former case:-
These observations were considered by this Court in Saghir Ahmed v. State of U. P. & Ors. (4) and after considering the various cases which Were cited by both sides, this Court observed:
The Press Commission also recommended that the period of notice for the termination of services should be based on the length of the service rendered and the nature of the appointment. There could be no hard and fast rule as to what the notice period should be. The practice upheld by law or by collective bargaining varies from country to country. In England the practice established by some judicial decisions is that the editor is entitled to a year's notice and an assistant editor to six months' notice. After examining the provisions in regard to notice which are in vogue in England, the Commission also noticed a decision in Bombay (Suit No. 735 of 1951 in the City Civil Court) where the judge concerned held that in the circumstances of the particular case the plaintiff, an assistant editor was entitled to a notice of four months although in normal times, he said, the rule adopted in England of six months should be the correct rule to adopt in India and a longer period of notice was suggested for editors because it was comparatively much more difficult to secure another assignment for a journalist of that seniority and standing in the profession.
When we come however to the provision in regard to the payment of gratuity to working journalists who voluntarily resigned from service from newspaper establishments, we find that this was a provision which was not at all reasonable. A gratuity is a scheme of retirement, benefit and the conditions for its being awarded have been thus laid down in the Labour Court decisions in this country. In the case of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation it was observed at p. 158 :-
the Indian Oxygen & Acetylene Co., Ltd. where it was observed:
A similar clause is to be found in Switzerland, in the collective agreement signed on April 1, 1948, between the Geneva Press Association and the Geneva Union of Newspaper Publishers:
The question as formulated is that the impugned Act selected the working journalists for favoured treatment by giving them a statutory guarantee of gratuity, hours of work and leave which other persons in similar or comparable employment had not got and in providing for the fixation of their salaries without following the normal procedure envisaged in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The following propositions are advanced:-
(e)allowing the Board in fixing the wages to adopt any arbitrary procedure even violating the principle of audi alteram partem;
The principle underlying the enactment of Art. 14 has been the subject-matter of various decisions of this Court and it is only necessary to set out the summary thereof given by Das J. (as be then was) in Budhan Choudhry & Others v. The State of Bihar (I).-
We have already set out what the Press Commission had to say in regard to the position of the working journalists in our country. A further passage from the Report may also be quoted in this context:
These were the considerations which weighed with the Press Commission in recommending the working journalists for special treatment as compared with the other employees of newspaper establishments in the matter of amelioration of their conditions of service We may also in this connection refer to the following passage from the Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in the world to-day (a series of studies published by UNESCO in 1951) (supra) at p. 403:-
Learned Counsel for the petitioners has relied upon a decision of the English Court in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal, Ex parte Shaw where Lord Goddard C. J. observed at p. 718:-
This decision was affirmed by the Court of Appeal (and the decision of the Court of Appeal is reported in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal, Ex parte Shaw (2) and while doing so Denning L. J. (as he then was) discussed at p. 352, what was it that constituted the record :-
This decision only affirmed that certiorari could lie only if an order made by the inferior tribunal was a speaking order. It did not lay down any duty on the inferior tribunal to set out the reasons for its order but (1) [1951] 1 K. B. 711, 718.
only pointed out that if no reasons were given it would be impossible for the High Court to interfere by exercising its prerogative jurisdiction in the matter of certiorari. A more relevant decision on this point is that of this Court in A. K. Gopalaa v. The State of Madras and, Anr. (1). In that case the provision of law which was impugned amongst others was one which prevented the detenu on pain of prosecution from disclosing to the Court the grounds of his detention communicated to him by the detaining authority. This provision was struck down as ultra vires and void. The reason given by Mahajan J. (as he then was) is stated at p. 243:
time it deprives a detained person from obtaining justice from this Court. In my opinion, therefore, this section when it prohibits the disclosure of the grounds contravenes or abridges the rights given by Part III to a citizen and is ultra vires the powers of Parliament to that extent." It is no doubt true that if there was any provision to be found in the impugned Act which prevented the Wage Board from giving reasons for its decision, it might be construed to mean that the order which was thus made by the Wage Board could not be a speaking order and no writ of certiorari could ever be available to the petitioners in that behalf. It is also true that in that event this Court would be powerless to redress the grievances of the petitioners by issuing a writ in the nature of certiorari and the fundamental right which a citizen has of approaching this Court under Art. 32 of the Constitution would be rendered nugatory.
In regard to the constitutionality of the Act therefore we have come to the conclusion that none of the provisions thereof is violative of the fundamental rights enshrined in Arts. 19(1)(a), 19(1), 14 and/or 32 save the provision contained in s.5(1)(a)(iii) of the Act which is violative of the fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and is therefore unconstitutional and should be struck down. Apart from challenging the vires of the Act dealt with above, the -petitioners contend that the decision of the Wage Board itself is illegal and void because:
The position in law is that the decision would be illegal on any of the following three grounds, viz., (A)Because the Act under which it was made was ultra vires; [ See Mohammad Yasin v. Town Area Committee, Jalalabad & anr. (1) and Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2) ].
This ground ignores the fact that the Working Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956, which were published on July 31, 1956, were made by the Central Government in exercise of the power conferred upon it by s. 20 of the Act. That section empowered the Central Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act, in particular to provide for the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of wages. Rule 8 provided that every question considered at a meeting of the Board was to be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting. In the event of equality of votes the Chairman was to have a casting vote............... This Rule therefore prescribed that the decision of the Board could be reached by a majority and this was the rule which was followed by the Board in arriving at its decision. The rule was framed by the Central Government by virtue of the authority vested in it under s. 20 of the Act and was a piece of delegated legislation which if the rules were laid before both the Houses of Parliament in accordance with s. 20(3) of the Act acquired the force of law. After the publication of these rules, they became a part of the Act itself and any decision thereafter reached by the Wage Board by a majority as prescribed therein was therefore lawful and could not be impeached in the manner suggested. Re. (3).
This ground has reference to the alleged violation by the Wage Board of the principles of natural justice. It is urged that the procedure established under the Industrial Disputes Act was not in terms prescribed for the Wage Board, the Board having been given under s. 11 of the Act the discretion for the purpose of fixing rates of wages to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, while adjudicating upon an industrial dispute referred to it. On two distinct occasions, however, the Wage Board definitely expressed itself that it had the powers of an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act' The first occasion was when the questionnaire was issued by the Wage Board and in the questionnaire it mentioned that it had such powers under s. 11 of the Act. The second occasion arose when a number of newspapers and journals to whom the questionnaire was addressed failed to send their replies to the same and the Wage Board at its meeting held on August 17, 1956, reiterated the position and decided to issue a Press Note requesting the newspapers and journals to send their replies as soon as possible, inviting their attention to the fact that the Board had powers of an Industrial Tribunal under the Act and if newspapers failed to send their replies, the Board would be compelled to take further steps in the matter. This is clearly indicative of the fact that the Wage Board did seek to exercise the powers under the terms of s. 11 of the Act. Even though, the exercise of such powers was discretionary with the Board, the, Board itself assumed these powers and assimilated its ,position to that of an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. If, then, it assumed those powers, it only followed that it was also bound to follow the procedure which an Industrial Tribunal so constituted was bound to follow.
This ground is urged because no reasons were given by the Wage Board for its decision. As a matter of fact, the Wage Board at its meeting dated April 22, 1957, agreed that reasons need not be given for each of the decisions and it was only sufficient to record the same and accordingly it did not give any reasons for the decision which it published. In the absence of any such reasons, however, it was difficult to divine what considerations, if any, prevailed with the Wage Board in arriving at its decision on the various points involved therein. It was no doubt not incumbent on the Wage Board to give any reasons for its decision. The Act made no provision in this behalf and the Board was perfectly within its rights if it chose not to give any reasons for its decision. Prudence should, however, have dictated that it gave reasons for the decision which it ultimately reached because if it had done so, we would have been spared, the necessity of trying to probe into its mind and find out whether any particular circumstance received due consideration at its hands in arriving at its decision. The fact that no reasons are thus given, however, would not vitiate the decision in any manner and we may at once say that even though no reasons are given in the form of a regular judgment, we have sufficient indication of the Chairman's mind in the note which he made on April 30, 1956, which is a contemporaneous record ex- plaining the reasons for the decision of the majority.
It may be remembered in this connection that the Newspaper Industry Inquiry Committee in U. P. had suggested in its report dated March 31,1949, classification of newspapers in the manner following:-
Reliance was placed in support of this contention on a decision of the Calcutta High Court in Pravat Kumar v. W. T. C. Parker (1), where the expression which came up for construction before the Court was " employed in an industrial establishment " and it was observed that:-
A similar interpretation was put on the expression industrial establishment " by the Madras High Court in S. R. V. Service Ltd. v. State of Madras (2), where it was observed at p. 12:-
These decisions lend support to the contention that a newspaper establishment like an industrial establishment should be located in one place, even though it may be carrying on its activities of production or publication of more newspapers than one. If these activities are carried on in different places, e. g., in different towns or cities of different States, the newspaper establishments producing or publishing such newspapers cannot be treated as one individual establishment but should be treated as separate newspaper establishments for the purpose of working out the relations between themselves and their employees. There would be no justification for including these different newspaper establishments into. one chain or multiple unit and treating them, as if they were one (1) A. I. R. 1950 Cal. 116, 118, para. 20.
All these considerations would necessarily have to be borne in mind by the Wage Board in arriving at its decision in regard to the wage structure though the relative importance to be attached to one circumstance or the other may vary in accordance with the conditions in different areas or regions where the newspaper establishments are located. Re. 8.
There is, however, a further difficulty in upholding the decision of the Wage Board in this behalf and it is this that even as regards the fixation of the rates of wages of working journalists the Wage Board does not seem to have taken into account the other provisions of the Act which conferred upon the working journalists the benefits of retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave. These provisions were bound to have their impact on the paying capacity of the newspaper establishments and if these had been borne in mind by the Wage Board it is highly likely that the rates of wages including the scales of wages as finally determined might have been on a lesser scale than what one finds in its decision.
This ground, viz., that the Board had no authority to render a decision which was retrospective in operation in also untenable. The Wage Board certainly had the jurisdiction and authority to pronounce a decision which could be retrospective in effect from the date of its appointment and there was no legal flaw in the Wage Board prescribing that its decision should be retrospective in operation in the manner indicated by it. The retrospectivity may have its repercussions on the capacity of the industry to pay and we need not say anything more in regard to the same. We have already dealt with it above.	Precedent
Appeals by special leave from the decision of the Wage Board for Working Journalists published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary (Part IT, Section 3) dated May 11, 1957. 1957. Dec. 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, 20. 1958. Jan. 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28. M. K. Nambiar and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the petitioners in Petition No. 91 of 1957. -The Working Journalists Act, 1955, is ultra vires as it infringes the fundamental rights of the Petitioners guaranteed by the Constitution under Arts. 19 (1) (a), 19 (1) (g), 14 and 32. Article 19 (1) (a) which guarantees freedom of speech and expression includes the freedom of the employment of means to exercise those rights and consequently comprehends the freedom of the Press. The guarantee of an abstract freedom of expression would be meaningless unless it contemplated and included in its ambit all the means necessary for the practical application of the freedom. (Freedom of the Press-A Framework of Principles-Report of the Commission on Freedom of Press in the United States of America, 1947; Report of the Royal Commission for the Press in the United Kingdom 1949; Ramesh Thapar v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 594; Brij Bhusan v. State of Delhi, [1950] S. C. R. 605; Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; Lovell v, City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Orosjean v. American Press Co., 80 L; Ed. 660; Schneider v. Irvington, 84 L. Ed. 155.
896). The law imposing restrictions on fundamental rights must be reasonable not only in its substantive content but in its procedural content as well (Dr. N. B. Khare v. State of Delhi, [1950] S. C. R. 519; Ourbachan v. State of Punjab, [1952] S. C. R. 737). The relevant criteria for the fixation of wages were not laid down in s. 9 (1) of the Act. The criteria for the fixation of wages laid down in the Act were only relevant for fixing minimum rates of wages, though the word " minimum" used in the Bill 13 of 1955 as introduced in the Rajya Sabha was subsequently dropped before the Bill became the Act. It was not made incumbent on the Wage Board to consider the capacity of industry to pay as an essential criterion or a major factor in fixing wages. The other circumstances, viz., " any other circumstances which to the Board may seem relevant "
24); or following the procedure prescribed by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, even in disregard of principles of audi alteram partem. The employers of the newspaper establishments are subjected to discriminatory treatment by the Act in that (1) they are singled out from all other industrial employers who are covered by the ordinary law regulating industrial relations under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; (ii) they have been saddled with new burdens in regard to a section of their workers in matters of gratuity, compensation, hours of work and wages; (iii) s. 12 of the Act makes the decision of the Wage Board binding only on the employers and not on the employees and(iv) s. 17 provides for recovery of money from employers only and not from employees in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.
The classification of newspapers on the basis of gross revenue is contrary to the provisions of the Act. In the gross revenue which is earned by newspaper establishments advertisement revenue ordinarily forms a large bulk of such revenue and unless the proportion of advertisement revenue to the gross revenue were taken into consideration it would not be possible to form a correct estimate of the financial status of a newspaper establishment with a view to its classification. Profit and loss of newspaper establishment should. be the proper test and if that test were adopted it would give an altogether different picture.
The purpose of the constitutional guarantee of free speech is to prevent public authority from assuming the guardianship of the public mind (Thomas v. Collins, 89 L. Ed. 430; The Supreme Court and the right of Free Speech and Press-Annotation in 93 L. Ed. 1151 ; Beauhairnais v. Illinois, 96 L. Ed. 919, 943dissenting opinion of Douglas, J.). While the Press enjoys no immunity from the application of the general laws relating to industrial relations, an Act or any of its provision would violate the right of free speech and expression if it lays a direct and preferential burden on the freedom of the Press ; if it has a tendency to curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of disseminating information; if it fetters the petitioners' freedom to choose the means of exercising' their right to freedom of expression and if it is likely to undermine the independence of the Press by having to seek Government aid. The Act singles out the Press for levying upon it a direct burden which is excessive and so restrictive as to be prohibitive. It begets a class of workers whose benefits and rights are given a preferential enforceability parallel to that of a public debt. The impugned Act by s. 9 leaves, in violation of the Constitution, the fixation of wages to an agency invested with arbitrary and uncannily power to impose an indeterminate burden on the wage structure of the Press, such employer and employee relations at its discretion as it thinks fit, and such burden and restrictions for such time as it thinks fit. The Act and the decision of the Wage Board, which under the Act becomes enforceable as a part of it, have imposed an excessive and prohibitive burden which will have a tendency to curtail the revenue and restrict circulation which is the means of imparting information and giving free expression to speech, impose a penality on the petitioners' right to choose the instruments for its exercise or to seek alternative media of expression, drive the Press to seek Government aid in order to survive and prevent newspapers from being started. The Act has created an impossible situation in which the petitioner could only say " I cannot live, I cannot die and I cannot commit suicide ". Even if the petitioners were to close down their business and dispose of all their assets they would not be in a position to meet all the liabilities.
The Constitution does not permit any abridgment of the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression unless it falls within the categories of restrictions mentioned in Art. 19(2). When the permitted restrictions were incorporated special care was taken by the framers of the Constitution to see that freedom of speech was protected and that the right should not be at the mercy of the legislature which might want to impose excessive burden on the Press. It is for this reason that the " Public interest " restriction in Art. 19(6) appearing against the fundamental right in Art. 19(1)(g) is not to be found in Art. 19(2).A distinction has to be drawn between the Constitution of U. S. A. and India. What is known as the " due process of law " in America has been specifically omitted from the Constitution of India. In U. S. A. the " due process " clause enabled the Supreme Court to read into the Constitution any doctrine restrictive of the fundamental right, e. g., in the 1930's the U. S. Supreme Court had held that statutory fixation of minimum wage in the newspaper industry was violation of fundamental rights of free speech, but after some years the same Court acting under the discretion given by the due process clause took cognizance of altered circumstances in labour relations and held that the imposition of a minimum wage on the Press did not violate the fundamental right (Constitution of the United States of America, Revised and Annotated (1952), U. S. Govt. Printing Office, pp. 792, 988). The Indian Constitution does not permit restriction of freedom of speech except under the limitation set by Art. 19(2). Restrictions that could be held intra vires in respect of other industries would still be ultra vires under Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution in respect of the Press industry because of the special privilege of right of free speech. Any direct restriction placed by Government on the Press would be violation of Art. 19(1)(a), and therefore even if the Government had sought to impose a minimum wage for the Press by direct legislation it would have been equally unconstitutional. This illegality, however, would not attach to the finding of an adjudicatory machinery such as was contemplated under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Where Government provided a media for the settlement of disputes and claims between citizen,,, and citizens there was no question of any contravention of fundamental rights which were protected against governmental encroachment.
The Wage Board has exceeded its authority and has arrived at conclusions and findings which restricts the fundamental rights of the petitioners. The Act authorizes the Central Government to constitute a Wage Board for fixing rates of wages. This does not authorize the Board to enter into the wider question of determination of scales of pay. Fixing could only mean fixing with reference to a point of time. The Legislature did not contemplate that single wage should determine the wage scales, for all time to come The whole framework of the Act was based on minimum wage and the sudden removal of the word " minimum " has caused all these difficulties. " Rates of wages " and not " scales of wages", the Wage Board was to consider. The term " rates of wages applies only to a particular point of time. [Sinha, J.-Section 9 (2) of the Act says that the Board may fix "rates of wages for time work and for piece work ". They cannot have any reference to scales. The same words in the statute mean the same thing. They cannot mean different things in different sections.] Yes. These words are used again and again in the Act. In the Minimun Wages Act, the Payment of Wages Act, etc., where the same expression " rates of wages " is used to indicate a wage fixed in time and amount. The Wage Board has exceeded its power in fixing the scales of wages and increments and thereby places a fetter on the Press, not contemplated by the Act.
The Act and the Wage Board have disregarded all considerations which according to authority and law were germane to the proper fixation of wages without placing restrictions on fundamental rights. Even the Minimum Wages Act provides for periodical reviews, and proposals for minimum wages should be notified for inviting the opinions.
Section 12 of the Act creates one-sided obligation by making decision of the Board binding only on the employers. Such one sided obligation can be appropriate when a minimum subsistence wage is fixed but cannot attach to payment of wages at luxury levels. This unilateral obligation on the employer leaves it open to the journalists to agitate for an increase in wages before an industrial tribunal, but it precludes the employer from seeking any alteration under any circumstances. The Act has provided no machinery for a review or revision of the wage structure even if circumstances changed.
Restrictions on fundamental right to do business arise because the Act and the decision of the Wage Board have the effect, firstly, of considerably increasing the operating cost and, secondly, of fettering the conditions of service or the terms of the contract of service between the employer and the employee.
The restrictions under Art. 19(6) on the freedom to carry oil business under Art. 19(1)(g) will not cease to be reasonable even if such restrictions resulted in prohibition of carrying on business in certain cases. Such restrictions can be imposed if they are in the interest of the general public. Having regard to the Report of the Committee on Fair Wages appointed by the Government of India and the practice prevailing in other countries, the Act has not adopted any unusual procedure in constituting a Wage Board for the determination of rates of wages of working journalists. The Act follows the recommendations of the Press Commission for the most part. The only important deviation it has made is that whereas the Press Commission had recommended fixation of a minimum wage, the Act provides for fixation of all wages. Under the directive principles of State Policy (Art. 43 of the Constitution) the goal was not merely a minimum wage but a fair wage and a living wage. We have to march to that goal.
The Court has to consider what the Legislature intended. The term " minimum wage" has been understood in two different senses, the first being an " industrial minimum wage " and the second a " statutory minimum wage ". Is it an " industrial minimum ", or is it a " statutory minimum " ? An " industrial minimum " is a subsistence wage that has to be paid by any unit if it wishes to exist; a " statutory minimum " is someting more than a subsistence level wage and may be any level which the Legislature thinks fit to impose. The statutory minimum wage need not be confined to fixing a single determinate amount but can legitimately include the fixing of a scale of wage. " Wages " has been defined very comprehensively in s. 2(rr) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and in the Third and Fourth Schedule to that Act wages are stated to include the period and mode of payment. [Sinha, J. Does it refer to scales ?] Wages include in its ambit the scales. It was on this basis that various Industrial Tribunals have fixed scales. Even the Supreme Court decided that way.
Minimum " was dropped. One of the criteria specified in s. 9(1) of the Act is the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments. This has no reference to minimum wage (Nellimarla Jute Mills, (1953) 1 L. L. J. 666). It shows that s. 9(1) contemplates fixation of rates of wages which are higher than the bare subsistence or industrial minimum wage. The criterion " the circumstances relating to newspaper industry in different regions of the country " in s. 9(1) can have no other meaning than the capacity to pay region-wise. The discretion given to the Wage Board to consider " any other circumstances which to the Board may seem relevant" is no doubt subjective. It is the Board which has to decide what is relevant and what is not. Such power is neither unreasonable nor arbitrary. The general policy with regard to the Wage Board was that they were given the widest discretion and there was no question of their discretion being fettered. Even if the Legislature left the fixation of wage to the Board without laying down any criteria it would have been a competent legislative Act because of the nature of the Board. In fact, three criteria have been laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act. Having regard to the variety and complexity of the matters involved it was not possible for the Legislature itself to visualise or indicate the various circumstances which might be relevant.
435). The hours of work provided in s. 6 of the Act cannot be said to be unreasonable having regard to the nature of work to be done by a working journalist. Such hours of work are fixed by s. 54 of the Factories Act, 1948, (See also, Mines Act, 1952; Shops and Establishments Acts of different States in -India). Sections 8 to II deal with the constitution of the Wage Board and the fixation of rates of wages by the Board. The Wage Board was to consist of an equal number of representatives of employers and employees and an independent chairman. There is nothing unreasonable in the constitution of the Board. The principles for the guidance of the Wage Board in the matter of fixation of wages have been laid down by the Act. It cannot, therefore, be said that these provisions are unreasonable. Section 17 of the Act relates only to the mode of recovery of money from an employer and does not impose any financial burden; therefore it could not be said that it infringes Art. 19(1)(g).
Article 14 of the Constitution does not forbid reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation (Budhan Choudhry v. The State of Bihar, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 1045, 1048). The work of a journalist is peculiar and demands a high degree of general education and some kind of specialised training (Report of the Press Commission, para. 512; Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in the World Today (1951) UNESCO publication at p. 403). The working journalists are a class by themselves apart from the other employees of the newspaper establishments and also employees in other industries. They can be singled out for the purpose of -ameliorating their conditions of service. There would be no discrimination if special. legislation is enacted for the benefit of this class and a special machinery is created for fixing the rates of its wages different from the machinery for other workmen. Even if the Act be considered as a social welfare measure the State can only make a beginning somewhere. Such a measure need not be all embracing. There is nothing unreasonable in s. 12 of the Act which makes the decision of the Board binding on the employers only. A provision which has for its object the protection of employees cannot be said to be repugnant to Art. 14 on the ground that it discriminates against the employers (South Bank Ltd. v. Pichuthayappan, A. 1. R. 1954 Madras 377). Section 17 of the Act is for the benefit of the working journalists It enables him to realise the money due from an employer under the Act. Similar provision is to be found in s. 33C of the Industrial Disputes Act. There is nothing discriminatory in a provision which governs employees in other industries being extended to working journalists. The object sought to be achieved by the Act is the amelioration of the conditions of service of working journalists. The classification is based on intelligible differentiate which distinguish them from other employees of the newspaper establishments and also in other industries. These differentiae have a rational basis. The legislation amply fulfils the conditions of permissible classification. It is " fantastic " to contend that the Act infringes Art. 32 of the Constitution. The Act does not prohibit the Wage Board from giving a reason for its decision. No question therefore arises of the infringement of the fundamental right of the petitioners under Art. 32.
Assuming any provision of the Act is void then the question will be whether it is severable. If it is severable then the whole Act will not be void but only the section. Similarly, if the court finds that the Act is constitutional but a decision of the Wage Board is ultra vires the Act or unconstitutional the Court will strike down such decision. That will not affect the validity of the Act. (State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, [1951] S. C. R. 682; State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S. C. R. 1069 and R. M.,D. Chamarbaugwala v. The Union of India, [1957] S. C. R. 930).
It is incorrect to infer that once the Wage Board is constituted under s. 8 of the Act the power of the Government under the Act is exhausted and nothing more can be done. The power to constitute the Board can by virtue of s. 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, be used from time to time as the occasion demands. There was nothing wrong in the Central Government reconstituting the Board on the resignation of Shri K. P. Keshava Menon. The decision by majority is provided by Rules framed by the Central Government under s. 20 of the Act which became a part of the Act. Hence a decision by a majority in conformity with the Rules under the Act cannot be impeached.
Under s. II of the Act the Wage Board "may" exercise the powers and follow the procedure laid down under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. There is nothing to warrant the provision being read as obligatory or mandatory. The provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act are basically enacted for the adjudication of disputes between two parties and they are on their face inapplicable to the Wage Board. That is precisely why the Board was given the option to exercise some of the powers conferred by the Industrial Disputes Act or to follow procedures prescribed in that Act. It is not incumbent under the Act on the Wage Board to give any reasons for its decisons. The Board would be perfectly within its right if it chose not to give any reasons. While judging the reasonableness of the wage structure for the whole industry it would be entirely fallacious to see how it hit a particular newspaper or a unit. Multiple units or chains could be classified on the basis of the total gross revenues of all the constituent units because economies would be possible in group operations resulting in the reduction of the cost of production. There is nothing in the Act which prohibits the Wage Board from grouping into chains or multiple units. Further, there is nothing in the Act to prohibit the treating of several newspaper establish- ments publishing one or more newspapers though in different parts of the country as one establishment for fixing rates of wages.
317). The Wage Board was not constituted as sub-legislative authority. The question is not what the legislature could have enacted but whether by virtue of powers of the Wage Board under the Act as enacted, it is a legislative body or a tribunal with adjudicators functions The Board does not possess any powers of delegated legislation, It has been given all the trappings which were necessary to characterize it as a judicial body. In interpreting the Act the Court is entitled to take into consideration the surrounding circumstances, the object of the legislation and also whether a particular term used in legislation was considered by the legislature at the time of enactment. The court ought to take into consideration the entire background and the effect of dropping of the term "minimum" from the enactment. The Press Commission had directed its attention exclusively to the question of fixing minimum wage and the Act in s. 9 followed the pattern and purported to implement the recommendations of the Press Commission. The Press Commission in considering minimum wage ignored the capacity to pay. The Act, similarly, being based on the Report of the Press Commission has made no provision for considering the capacity to pay. This omission which was appropriate with regard to minimum wages rendered the fixation of wages at a different level unreasonable and therefore void. The content of the term "minimum wage" would not be changed by merely calling it a "statutory" minimum.
Section 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, can apply if the enactment does not rule it out by necessary implication. The entire scheme of the impugned Act shows that only one Wage Board and one decision is contemplated. It is not open to the Government to reconstitute the Wage Board as and when they desire.
Munshi, in reply. The doctrine of "pith and substance" can be applied only to determine the jurisdiction of the legislature to enact a certain legislation. Whether or not the Act imposes a direct burden, the Court should see if the Act is a special law singling out an industry for laying the burden on it. If it does so, as in the present Act, it will amount to a direct burden. If it is a general law it would not be a direct burden.
The Act stands alone in being arbitrary and excessive and is without parallel in any other country. The Act is unique in that (1) it provides for gratuity even on voluntary resignation. (2) it gives power to the Wage Board to fix indeterminate wages investing them with attributes of minimum wages, and (3) it confers on the Board power to fix wages (i) without specifying essential standards, (ii) without casting a duty to follow a reasonable procedure, (iii) without any control by an appellate tribunal or court, and (iv) without providing any opportunity to the parties concerned to be heard on the merits of the proposal it makes. In other countries there are various safeguards and checks against arbitrary wage decisions. (U. K. Wage Councils Act, 1945; U. S. Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938; Factories and Shops Act, 1905, new Act of 1928 of Victoria, Australia).
In order to appreciate the rival contentions of the parties it will be helpful to trace the history of the events which led to the enactment of the impugned Act.
Almost immediately after the Report of the Press Commission, Parliament passed the Working Journalists (Industrial ]Disputes) Act, 1955 (I of 1955) which received the assent of the President on March 12, 1955. It was an Act to apply the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to working journalists.
The application of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the working journalists was not, however, deemed sufficient to meet the requirements of the situation. There was considerable agitation in Parliament for the implementation of the recommendations of the Press Commission, and on November 30, 1955, the Union Government introduced a Bill in the Rajya, Sabha, being Bill No. 13 of 1955. It was a Bill to regulate conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments. The recommendations of the Press Commission in regard to minimum period of notice, bonus, Sunday rest, leave, and provident fund and gratuity, etc., were all incorporated in the Bill; the fixation of the minimum rates of Wages however was left to a minimum wage Board to be constituted for the purpose by the Central Government. The provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1946) and the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) were also sought to be applied in respect of establishments exceeding certain minimum size as recommended by the Commission. It appears that during the course of discussion in the Rajya Sabha, the word " minimum " was dropped from the Bill wherever it occurred, the Minister for Labour having been responsible for the suggested amendment. The reason for dropping the same was stated by him as under:
The Act as finally passed was entituled " The Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955) and received the assent of the President on December 20, 1955.
The relevant provisions of the Act may now be referred to. It was an Act to regulate certain conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments. Newspaper establishment " was defined in s. 2 (d) to mean " an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not, for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate ". The definition of " working journalist " was almost in the same terms as that in the Working Journalists (Industrial Disputes) Act, 1955, and included a proof reader. All words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, were under s. 2 (g) to have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act. Section 3 applied the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as it was in force for the time being, to working journalists as they applied to, or in relation to workmen within the meaning of that Act subject to the modification that s. 25 (F) of that Act in its application to working journalists in regard to the period of notice in relation to the retrenchment of a workman was to be construed as substituting six months in the case of the retrenchment of an editor and three months, in the case of any other working journalist. The period which lapsed between the publication of the report and the enactment of the Working Journalists (Industrial Disputes) Act, 1955, viz., from July 14, 1954, to March 12, 1955, was sought to be bridged over by s. 4 enacting special provisions in respect of certain cases of retrenchment during that period. Section 5 provided for the payment of gratuity, inter alia, to a working journalist who had been in continuous service, whether before or after the commencement of the Act, for not less than three years in any newspaper establishment even when he voluntarily resigned from service of that newspaper establishment. Section 6 laid down that no working journalist shall be required or allowed to work in any newspaper establishment for more than one hundred and forty-four hours during any period of four consecutive weeks, exclusive of the time for meals. Every working journalist was under s. 7 entitled to earned leave and leave on medical certificate on the terms therein specified without prejudice to such holidays, casual leave or other kinds of leave as might be prescribed. After thus providing for retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, hours of work, and leave, ss. 8 to 1 1 of the Act provided for fixation of the rates of wages in respect of working journalists. Section 8 authorised the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette to constitute a Wage Board for fixing rates of wages in respect of the working journalists in accordance with the provisions of the Act, which Board was to consist of an equal number of persons nominated by the Central Government to represent employers in relation to the newspaper establishments- and working journa lists, and an independent person appointed by the Central Government as the Chairman thereof. Section 9 laid down the circumstances which the Wage Board was to have regard to in fixing rates of wages and these circumstances were the cost of living, the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments, the circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country and to any other circumstance which to the Board may seem relevant. The decision of the Board fixing rates of wages was to be communicated as soon as practicable to the Central Government and this decision was under s. 10 to be published by the Central Government in such manner as it thought fit within a period of one month from the date of its receipt by the Central Government and the decision so published was to come into operation with effect from such date as may be specified, and where no date was so specified on the date of its publication. Section 11 prescribed the powers and procedure of the Board and stated that subject to any rules of procedure which might be prescribed the Board may, for the purpose of fixing rates of wages, exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, exercised or followed for the purpose of adjudicating an industrial dispute referred to it. The decision of the Board under s. 12 was declared to be binding on all employers in relation to newspaper establishments and every working journalist was entitled to be paid wages at a rate which was to be in no case less than the rate of wages fixed by the Board. Sections 14 and 15 applied the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, as it was in force for the time being and also the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952, as it was in force for the time being, to every newspaper establishment in which twenty or more persons were employed. Section 17 provided for the recovery of money due from an employer and enacted that where any money was due to a newspaper employee from an employer under any of the provisions of the Act, whether by way of compensation, gratuity or wages, the newspaper employee might, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, make an application to the State Government for the recovery of the money due to him, and if the State Government or such authority as the State Government might specify in this behalf was satisfied that any money was so due, it shall issue a certificate for that amount to the collector and the collector shall proceed to recover that amount in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue. Section 20 empowered the Central Government by. notification in the Official Gazette to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules were to provide inter alia for the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of wages. All rules made under this section, as soon as practicable after they were made were to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. The Working Journalists (Industrial Disputes) Act, 1955, was repealed by s. 21 of the Act.
The questionnaire was accordingly drawn up and was sent to Universities and Governments, etc., and several other organisations and individuals interested in the inquiry of the Board, and to all newspapers individually. It was divided into three parts. Part " A" was intended to be answered by newspapers, news agencies, organisations of employers and of workinly Journalists and any individuals who might wish to do so. Part " B " was meant to be answered by all newspapers and Part " C " by all news agencies.
and (g) Location.
1. For the purpose of fixation of wages of working journalists, newspaper, establishments should be grouped under different classes.
2. Except in the case of weeklies and other periodicals expressly provided for hereinafter, newspaper establishments should be classified on the basis of their gross revenue.
12. A newspaper establishment will be classified as:-
20. Working journalists employed in newspaper establishments should be grouped as follows:
These suggestions, however, were not acceptable to the majority.
Dearness allowance, location allowance and part time employees remuneration were also majority decisions.The chairman and the representatives of the working journalists voting for and the representatives of the employers voting against.
Editorial employees were one section of a newspaper establishment and any increase in their emoluments would have its inevitable repercussions on the wages of other sections. The salaries of working Journalists would roughly be one-fifth of the total wage bill. The factory staff had a great bargaining power and as such any increase in the salaries and introduction of scales in the editorial department would have to be followed by an increase in the wages and introduction of time scales in the factory side.
The reason for grouping all the constituent units of the same group or chain in the same class in which they would fall on the basis of the total gross income of the entire establishment was given by the chairman as under:-
(i) the poverty level,81
(ii) the minimum subsistence level,
(iii)the subsistence plus level and
The Minimum Wage-Fixing Machinery published by the 1. L. O. has summarised these views as follows:
The statutory minimum wage however is the minimum which is prescribed by the statute and it may be higher than the bare subsistence or minimum wage, providing for some measure of education, medical requirements and amenities, as contemplated above. (Cf. also the connotation of " minimum rate of wages " in s. 4 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (XI of 1948)).
The enactment of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, affords an illustration of an attempt to provide a statutory minimum. wage. It was an Act to provide for fixing minimum rates of wages in certain employments and the appropriate Government was thereby empowered to fix different minimum rates of wages for (i) different scheduled employments; (ii) different classes of work in the same scheduled employment;
(iii) adult-,, adolescents, children and apprentices; and
It must however be remembered that whereas the bare minimum or subsistence wage would have to be fixed irrespective of the capacity of the industry to pay, the minimum wagg thus contemplated postulates the capacity of the industry to pay and no fixation of wages which ignores this essential factor of the capacity of the industry to pav could ever be supported.
This consideration however of the capacity of the industry to pay does not militate against the construction adopted above that rates of wages do comprise within their scope the scales of wages also and it therefore follows that the fixation of rates of wages would also include the fixation of scales of wages. As a matter of fact, the provisions in regard to the statutory minimum wages in Queensland, Western Australia, and Tasmania prescribe scales of wages which are graduated according to age and experience. The capacity of the industry to pay being thus one of the essential ingredients in the fixation of wages, it is relevant to consider the different methods of measuring such capacity.
Different tests have been suggested for measuring the capacity of the industry to pay: viz:
The machinery for fixations of wages:
are appointed on the recommendation of the associations concerned. The trade board publishes a notice announcing its tentative proposals for the fixation or revision of a wage rate and invites objections or comments. After a two months' notice the board takes a final decision and submits a report to the Minister who must confirm the rate unless, for any special reasons, he returns the recommendations to the board for further consideration." (1) The Wage Council Act, 1945 (8 & 9 Geo. VI, ch. 17) provides for the establishment of Wage Councils. The Minister of Labour and National Service has the power to make a wages council order after considering objections made with respect to the draft order on behalf of any person appearing to him to be affected. The Wage Council makes such investigation as it thinks fit and publishes notice of the wage regulation proposals and parties affected are entitled to make written representations with respect to these proposals which representations the Wage Council considers. The Wage Council can make such further enquiries as it considers necessary and thereafter submit the proposals to the Minister either without amendment or with such amendments as it thinks fit in regard to the same. The Minister considers these wage regulations proposals and makes an order giving effect to the proposals from such date as may be specified in the order. Remuneration fixed by the wage regulation orders is called statutory minimum remuneration. There are also similar provisions under the Agricultural Wage Regulation Act, 1924 (14 & 15 Geo. V, ch. 37) in regard to the regulation of wages by Agricultural Wages Committees and the Agricultural Wages Board. In Canada and Syria a board consists of generally 5 members, but in China the size of the board varies from 9 to 15. In all these countries employers and workers obtain equal representation. In Canada the boards are required to enquire into the conditions of work and wages. In some provinces the boards are authorised to issue orders or decrees while in others (1) The Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, pp. 25-26, para. 30.
This Act is limited in its operation to the so-called sweated industries in which labour is practically unorganised and working conditions are far worse than in organised industry. Under that Act the appropriate Government has either to appoint a Committee to hold enquiries and to advise it in regard to the fixation of minimum rates of wages or, if it thinks that it has enough material on hand, to publish its proposals for the fixation of wages in the official gazette and to invite objections. The appropriate Government finally fixes the minimum rates of wages on receipt of the recommendations of the Committee or of objections from the public. There is no provision for any appeal. There is an advisory board in each province to co-ordinate the work of the various committees. There is also a Central Advisory Board to co-ordinate the work of provincial boards. Complaints of non-payment of the minimum rates of wages fixed by Government may be taken to claims authorities. Breaches of the Act are punishable by criminal courts." (1) It is worthy of note that these committee, subcommittees, advisory board and central advisory board are to consist of persons to be nominated by the Central Government representing employers and employees in the scheduled employments, who shall be equal in number, and independent persons not exceeding one-third of its total number of members; one of such independent persons shall be appointed the chairman by the appropriate Government.
(c)The independent person or persons mentioned in paragraph (a) -should be selected from among men or women recognised as possessing the necessary qualifications for their duties and as being dissociated from any interest in the trade or part of trade concerned which might be calculated to put their impartiality in question. "
If a wage board is thus appointed it is necessary that the principles for its guidance in wage fixation should also be laid down by the appointing authority. The following passage from "Minimum Wage-An International Survey-I.L.O. Geneva, 1939, summarises the position as it obtains in various countries:
No classification shall be made under this section on the basis of age or sex."
The normal rule however is to leave a wide discretion to the tribunals responsible for the fixation of wages inasmuch as they being constituted of equal numbers of representatives of the employers and the employees are best calculated to appreciate the whole position and arrive at correct results.
Procedure to be followed :
If these safeguards are provided against the determinations of the wage boards, it will be really immaterial what procedure they adopt in the course of the proceedings before them. They would normally be expected to adopt all procedure necessary to gather sufficient data and collect sufficient materials to enable them to come to a proper conclusion in regard to the matters submitted to them for their determination' If however at any time they flouted the regulations prescribed in regard to the procedure to be followed by them or in the absence of any such regulations adopted a procedure -which was contrary to the principles of natural justice their decision would be vitiated and liable to be set aside by the appropriate authority. Charactero the functions performed:
should be confined to its proper sphere. Its proper significance, in my opinion, is to denote a departure from the standard of even-handed justice which the law requires from those who occupy judicial office, or those who are commonly regarded as holding a quasi-judicial office, such as an arbitrator. The reason for this clearly is, that having to adjudicate as between two or more parties, he must come to his adjudication with an independent mind, without any inclination or bias towards one side or other in the dispute."
We now proceed to consider how far the impugned Act violates the fundamental rights of the petitioners. Re : Article 19 (1) (a).
Art. 19 (1) (a) guarantees to all citizens the right to freedom of speech and expression. it has, however, got to be read along with Art. 19 (2) which lays down certain constitutionally permissible limitations on the exercise of that right. Art. 19 (2) as substituted by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, with retrospective effect reads as under:
If any limitation on the exercise of the fundamental right under Art. 19 (1) (a) does not fall within the four corners of Art. 19 (2) it cannot be upheld.
Freedom of speech and expression includes within its scope the freedom of the press and it would be apposite here to refer to the following passages from "
There is room for regulation of the ways and means of invading privacy. No such leeway is granted the invasion of the right of free speech guaranteed by the First Amendment. Until recent years that had been the course and direction of constitutional law. Yet recently the Court in this and other cases has engraved the right of regulation onto the First Amendment by placing in the hands of the legislative branch the right to regulate " within reasonable limits "
employment of the necessary means of exercising this right or in other words, freedom from restriction in respect of employment in the editorial force.
publishers of newspapers upon the same plane with other businesses and the exemption for small newspapers had the same object. Nothing in the Grosjean case (1), forbids Congress to exempt some publishers because of size from either a tax or a regulation which would be valid if applied to all."
to decide whether the policy which it expresses offends the public welfare............ But the state legislatures have constitutional authority to experiment with new techniques; they are entitled to their own standard of the public welfare; they may within extremely broad ,limits control practice; in the business-labor field, so long as specific constitutional prohibitions are not violated and so long as conflicts with valid and controlling federal laws are avoided (Day-Brite Lighting, Inc. v. Missouri, 342 U. S. 421, 423 (1952) )."
While therefore no such immunity from the general laws can be claimed by the press it would certainly not be legitimate to subject the press to laws which take away or abridge the freedom of speech and expression or which would curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, or fetter its freedom to choose its means of exercising the right or would undermine its independence by driving it to seek Government aid. Laws which single out the press for laying upon it excessive and prohibitive burdens which would restrict the circulation, impose a penalty on its right to choose the instruments for its exercise or to seek an alternative media, prevent news- papers from being started and ultimately drive the press to seek Government aid in order to survive, would therefore be struck down as unconstitutional.
Article 19 (2) being thus out of the question the only point that falls to be determined by us is whether the provisions of the impugned Act in any way take away or abridge the petitioners' fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression.
same argument was urged in respect of the rest of the rights mentioned in sub-clauses (b), (c), (d), (e) and (g). Although this argument is advanced in a case which deals with preventive detention, if correct, it should be applicable in the case of punitive detention also to any one sentenced to a term of imprisonment Linder the relevant section of the Indian Penal Code. So considered, the argument must clearly be rejected In spite of the saving clauses (2) to (5), permitting abridgement of the rights connected with each of them punitive detention under several sections of the Penal Code, e. g., for theft,, cheating, forgery and even ordinary assault, will be illegal. Unless such conclusion necessarily follows front the article, it is obvious that such construction should be avoided. In my opinion, such result is clearly not the outcome of the Constitution. The article has to be read. without any pro- conceived notions. So read, it clearly means that the legislation to be examined must be directly in respect of one of the rights mentioned in the sub-clauses. -If there is a legislation directly attempting to control a citizen's freedom of speech or expression, or his right to assemble peaceably and without arms, etc,, the question whether that legislation is saved by the relevant saving clause of article 19 will arise. If, however, the legislation is not directly in respect of any of these subjects, but as a result of the operation of other legislation, -for instance, for punitive or preventive detention, his right under any of these sub-clauses is abridged, the question of the application of article 19 does not arise. The true approach is only to consider the directness of the legislation and not what will be the result of the detention otherwise valid, on the mode of the detent's life. On that short ground, in my opinion, this argument about the infringement of the rights mentioned in article 19 (1) generally must fail. Any other construction put on the article, it seems to me, will be unreasonable."
The impugned Act is as its long title shows an act to regulate certain conditions of service of working journa- lists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments and in the very forefront of the Act, the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, is by s. 3 made applicable to working journalists with certain modification in connection with the application of s. 25F of that Act. The rest of the provisions contained in ch. II concerned themselves with the payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave and fixation of wages of the -working journalists. The regulation of the conditions of service is thus the main object which is sought to be achieved by the impugned Act. Chapter III of the Act applies the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952, to all the employees of the newspaper establishments wherein twenty or more newspaper employees are employed and covers working journalists as well as other employees in the employ of the newspaper establishments. The miscellaneous provisions contained in ch. IV are designed merely to implement or to carry out the provisions of the main part of. the Act and they do not make any difference so far as the effect and operation of the Act is concerned. If this is the true nature of the Act, it is impossible to say that the Act was designed to affect the freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the petitioners or that was its necessary effect and operation. It was conceded in the course of the arguments that if a general law in regard to the industrial or labour relations had been applied to the press industry as a whole no exception could have been taken to it. If the matter had rested with the application of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the working journalists or with the application of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, or the Employees' Provident Fund,% Act, 1952, to them no exception could have been taken to this measure. It was, however, urged that apart from the application of these general laws to the working journalists, there are provisions enacted in the impugned Act in relation to payment of gratuity, hours of work, leave and fixation of the rates of wages which are absolutely special to the press industry qua the working journalists and they have the effect of singling out the press industry by creating a class of privileged workers with benefits and rights which have not been conferred upon other employees and the provisions contained therein have the effect of laying a direct and preferential burden on the press, have a tendency to curtail the circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, fetter the petitioner's freedom to choose the means of exercising their right and are likely to undermine the independence of the press by having to seek Government aid.
The gravamen of the complaint of the petitioners against the impugned Act, however, has been the appointment of the Wage Board for fixation of rates of wages for the working journalists and it is contended that apart from creating a class of privileged workers with benefits and rights which were not conferred upon other employees of industrial establishments, the Act has left the fixation of rates of wages to an agency invested with arbitrary and uncanalised powers to impose an indeterminate burden on the wage structure of the press, to impose such employer-employee relations as in its discretion it thinks fit and to impose such burden and relation-, for such time as it thinks proper. This contention will be more appropriately dealt with while considering the alleged infringement of the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 19(1) (g). Suffice it to say that so far as Art. 19(1) (a) is concerned this contention also has a remote bearing on the same and need not be discussed here at any particular length. Re: Article (19(1) (g).
2.The restrictions enumerated above in so far as they affect the destruction of the petitioners' business exceed the bounds of permissible legislation under Art. 19(1)(g). The unreasonableness of the restriction is further sought to be emphasized by pointing out that under s. 12 of the impugned Act, the decision of the Board is declared binding on all employers, though the working journalists axe not bound by the same and are entitled, if they are dissatisfied with it, to agitate for further revision by raising industrial disputes between themselves and their employers and having them adjudicated under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
members one of whom is appointed the chairman of the Board. The main grievance of the petitioners, however, has been that the relevant criteria for the fixation of rates of wages were not laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act. Section 8 empowered the Central Government to constitute a wage board for fixing rates of wages in respect of working journalists in accordance with the provisions of the Act and s. 9(1) directed that in fixing such rates of wages the Board &hall have regard to the cost of living, the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments, the circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country and to any other circumstances which to the Board may seem relevant. These criteria, it was contended, were only relevant for fixing minimum rates of wages,' though the word " minimum " which had been used in the Bill No. 13 of 1955 as introduced in the Rajya Sabha was deleted when the Act actually came to be passed and it was further contended that the capacity of the Industry to pay which was an essential circumstance to be taken into consideration in the fixation of wages was not set out as one of the circumstances to be taken into consideration by the Board in fixing rates of wages. It was also contended that the other circumstances which the Board was directed to consider in addition to those specifically enumerated in s. 9(1) were such as to the Board may seem relevant thus relegating these circumstances to the subjective determination of the Board with the necessary consequence that no Court or other authority could scrutinize the same objectively. We do not propose to enter into any elaborate discussion on the question whether it would be competent to us in arriving at a proper construction of the expression " fixing rates of wages " to look into the Statement of Objects and Reasons attached to the Bill No. 13 of 1955 as introduced in the Rajya Sabha or the circumstances under which the word "
The last criterion enumerated in s. 9(1) of the Act was "
determination which resulted in the superintendence of the property of a citizen being assumed could, not be scrutinized and the propriety thereof investigated by higher authorities.
This argument, however, does not help the petitioners because this criterion is on a par with or ejusdem generis with the other criteria which have been specifically enumerated in the earlier part of the section. The major and important criteria have been specifically enumerated and if would be impossible for the Legislature exhaustively to enumerate the other circumstances which would be relevant to be considered by the Board in arriving at the fixation of the rates of wages. In the course of the enquiry the Board might come across other relevant circumstances which would weigh with it in the determination of the rates of wages and it would not be possible for the Legislature to think of them or to enumerate the same as relevant considerations and it was therefore, and rightly in our opinion, left to the Board to determine the relevancy of those circumstances and take them into consideration while fixing the rates of wages. If the principles which should guide the Board in fixing the rates of wages were laid down with sufficient clarity and particularity and the criteria so far as they were of major importance were specifically enumerated there was nothing wrong in leaving other relevant considerations arising in the course of the enquiry to the subjective satisfaction of the Board. The Board was, after all, constituted of equal numbers of representatives of employers and the employees and they were best calculated to take into account all the relevant circumstances apart from those which were, specifically enumerated in the section. It was, however, contended that the procedure to be followed by the Board for fixing the rates of wages was not laid down and it was open to the Board to follow any arbitrary procedure violating the principle of audi alteram partem and as such this also was unreasonable. Section 20 (2) (d) of the impugned Act gave power to the Central Government to make rules inter alia in regard to the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of wages and s. 11 provided that subject to any rules which might be prescribed the Board may, for the purpose of fixing rates of wages, exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, exercises or follows for the purpose of adjudicating an industrial dispute referred to it. This was, however, an enabling provision which vested in the Board the discretion whether to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal. The Board was at liberty not to do so and follow its own procedure which may be arbitrary or violative of the principle of audi alteram partem.
It has to be remembered, however, that in the United Kingdom the Wage Councils and the Central Co-ordinating Committees under the Wages Councils Act, 1945, and the Agricultural Wages Board under the Agricultural Wages Regulations Act, 1924, also are empowered to regulate their proceeding in such manner as they think fit. The Wage Boards in Australia have also no formal procedure prescribed for them, though the Wage Boards which are established under the amended Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946, are enjoined to follow the same procedure as an industrial court in respect of industrial proceedings before it. It would not therefore be legitimate to hold that the procedure to be followed by the wage board for fixing rates of wages must necessarily be prescribed by the statute constituting the same. It is no doubt contemplated in each of these statutes that rules of procedure may be prescribed; but even though they, may be so prescribed, it is left to the discretion of the wage boards to regulate their procedure in such manner as they think fit, subject of course to the rules thus prescribed. A wide discretion is thus left with the wage boards to prescribe their own rules of procedure, but it does not therefore follow that they are entitled to follow any arbitrary rules of procedure. The wage boards are responsible bodies entrusted with the task of gathering data and materials relevant for the determination of the issues arising before them and even though they are not judicial tribunals but administrative agencies they would elicit all relevant information and invite answers to the questionnaire or representations from the parties concerned, hear evidence and arrive at their determination after conforming to the principles of natural justice. Even though they may perform, quasi-judicial functions, the exercise of arbitrary powers by them would not be countenanced by, any court or higher authority. In the present case, however, we have in, the forefront of the impugned Act a provision as to the application of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947, to working journalists. No doubt certain specific provisions as to payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave are specifically enacted, but when we come to the fixation of rates of wages we find that a wage board has been constituted for the purpose. The principles to be followed by the Wage Board for fixing rates of wages are also laid down and the decision of the Board is to be published in the same manner as awards of industrial courts,under the Industrial Disputes Act. Then follows s. 11 which talks of the powers and procedure of the Board and there also, subject to any rules of procedure which may be prescribed by the Central Government, the Board is empowered to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act. If regard be had to this provision it is abundantly clear that the intention of the Legislature was to assimilate the Wage Board thus constituted as much as possible to an Industrial Tribunal constituted: under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and it was contemplated that the Board may for fixing rates. of wages, exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure. The decision of the Board was to be binding on all the employers, though the working journalists were at liberty to further agitate the, question under the Industrial Disputes Act if they were not satisfied with the deciSion of the Wage Board and wanted a further increase in their rates of wages, thus determined. All these circumstances point to the conclusion that even though the Board was not bound to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an industrial tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, the Board was, in any event, not entitled to 'adopt any arbitrary procedure violating the principles of natural justice. If on the construction of the relevant sections of the statute the functions which the Wage Board was performing would be tantamount to laying down a law or rule of conduct for the future so that all the employers and the employees in the' industry not only those who were participating in it in the present but also those who would enter therein in the future would be bound by it, the dictum of Justice Holmes would apply and the functions performed by the wage board could be characterized as legislative in character. Where, however, as in the present case, the constitution of the Wage Board is considered in the background of the application of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act to the working journalists and the provisions for the exercise of the same powers and following the same procedure as an industrial tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, it would be possible to argue that the Wage Board was not exercising legislative functions but was exercising functions which were quasi-judicial in character. In this connection, it was also pointed out that the Legislature itself while enacting the impugned Act did not consider these functions as legislative at all. The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha (1957) provide in Rule No. 70 for a Bill involving proposals for the delegation of legislative power shall further be accompanied by a memorandum explaining such proposals and drawing attention to their scope and stating also whether they are of normal or exceptional character. There is also a committee on subordinate legislation which is established for scrutinizing and reporting to the House; whether the powers to make regulations, rules, sub-rules, by-laws, etc., conferred by the Constitution or delegated by Parliament are being properly exercised within 'such delegation (vide Rule 317 ibid). The constitution by the Legislature of the Wages Board in the matter of the fixation of rates of wages was not considered as a piece of delegated legislation in the memorandum regarding -delegated legislation appended to the draft Bill No. 13, of 1955 introduced in the Rajya Sabha on September 28, 1955, and the only reference that was made there was to Cl. 19 of the Bill which empowered the Central Government to make rules in respect of certain matters specified therein and it was stated that these were purely procedural matters of a routine character and related inter alia to prescribing hours of work, payment of gratuity, holidays, earned leave or other kinds of leave and the procedure to be followed by the Minimum Wager, Board in fixing minimum wages and the manner in which its decisions may be published. Clause 19 (3) of the Bill further provided that all rules made under this section shall as soon as practicable after they are made, be laid before both Houses of Parliament. These clauses were ultimately passed as s. 20 of the impugned Act but they were the only piece of delegated legislation contemplated by the Legislature and were covered by the memorandum regarding the same which was appended to the Bill. The decision of the Wage Board was not to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament which would have been the case if the fixation of rates of wages was a piece of delegated legislation. It was only to be published by the Central Government after it/ was communicated to it by the Wage Board in such manner as the Central Government thought fit, a provision which was akin to the publication of award,,; of the Industrial Tribunals by the appropriate Government under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. This circumstance also was pointed out as indicative of the intention of the Legislature not to constitute the Wage Board a sub-legislative authority. While recognizing the force of these contentions we may observe that it is not necessary for our purposes to determine the nature and character of the functions performed by the Wage Board here. It is sufficient to say that the Wage Board was not empowered or authorised to adopt any arbitrary,procedure and flout the principles of, natural justice.
Even if the provisions of the impugned Act would not necessarily have the effect of destroying the business of the petitioners but of crippling it and making it impossible for the petitioners to continue the same except under onerous conditions, they would have the effect of curtailing their circulation and drive them to seek government aid and thereby impose an unreasonable burden on their right to carry on business and would come within the ban of Art. 19(1) (g) read with Art. 13(2) of the Constitution. Several provisions of the impugned Act were referred to in this context. Section 2(f) of the Act which defines working journalist " so as to include " proofreader was pointed out in this connection and it was urged that even though the Press Commission Report recommended the exclusion of certain class of proof-readers from the definition of working journalists the Legislature went a step further and included all proof-readers within that definition thereby imposing upon the newspaper establishments an unreasonable burden far in excess of what they were expected to bear. The provision as to the notice in relation to the retrenchment of working journalist was also extended beyond the limitations specified in s. 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and was extended to six months in the case of an Editor and three months in the case of any other working journalist. The provision with regard to retrenchment was also made applicable retrospectively to all cases of retrenchment which had occurred between July 14, 1954, and March 12, 1955 ; so also the payment of gratuity was ordered not only in the cases usually provided for but also in cases where a working journalist who had been in continuous service for not less than three years voluntarily resigned from service from a newspaper establishment. The hours of work prescribed were 144 hours only during any period of four consecutive weeks and they were far less in number than the hours of work recommended by the Press Commission Report. The fixation of rates of wages was entrusted to the Wage Board which could fix any wages which it thought proper irrespective of the capacity of the industry to pay and might be such as the industry could not bear. These provisions taken each one by itself may not have the effect of destroying the petitioners' business altogether or even crippling it in the manner indicated but taken cumulatively along with the provisions contained in ss. 14 and 15 of the impugned Act which applied the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and, the Employees' Provident funds Act, 1952, to newspaper establishments would certainly bring about that result and would therefore constitute an unreasonable restriction on the, petitioners' right to carry on business. We shall deal with these contentions one by one. There is no doubt that " proof-readers " were not all recommended by the Press Commission to be included in the definition of working journalists, but it has to be remembered that proof-readers occupy a very important position in the editorial staff of a newspaper establishment. B. Sen Gupta in his " Journalism as a Career " (1955) talks of the position of the proof-reader as follows:
The provisions in regard to notice cannot be said to be per se unreasonable. Apart from the recommendations of the Press Commission in that behalf, Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. 22, 2nd Edn., p. 150, para. 249, foot note (e), contains the following statement in regard to the periods of reasonable notice to which persons of various employments have been found entitled:-
The further provision contained in s. 17 of the Act in regard to the recovery of money due from an employer empowering the State Government or any such authority appointed in that behalf to issue a certificate for that amount to the collector in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue was also impeached by the petitioners on this ground. That provision, however, relates only to the mode of recovery and not to the imposition of any financial burden as such on the employer. We shall have occasion to deal with this provision in connection with the alleged infringement of the fundamental right under Art. 14 hereafter. We do not subscribe to the view that such a provision infringes the fundamental right of the petitioners to carry on business under Art. 19(1)(g).
This attack of the petitioners on the constitutionality of the impugned Act under Art. 19(1)(g), viz., that it violates the petitioners' fundamental right to carry on business, therefore, fails except in regard to s. 5(1)(a)(iii) thereof which being clearly severable from the rest of the provisions, can be struck down as unconstitutional without invalidating the other parts of the impugned Act. Re. Article 14.
(b)saddling them with a new burden in regard to a section of their workers in matters of gratuities, compensation, hours of work and wages;
public opinion and to criticize the wrong done by any individual or organization however high placed. They thus form an essential adjunct to democracy. The profession must, therefore, be manned by men of high intellectual and moral qualities. The journalists are in a sense creative artists and the public rightly or, wrongly, expect from them a general omniscience and a capacity to express opinion on any topic that may arise, under the sun. Apart from the nature of their work the conditions under which that work is to be performed, are peculiar to this profession. Journalists have to work at very high pressure and as most of the papers come out in the morning, the journalists are required to work late in the night and round the clock. The edition must go to press by a particular time and all the news that breaks before that hour has got to find its place in that edition. Journalism thus becomes a highly specialized job and to handle it adequately a person should be well-read, have the ability to size up a situation and to arrive quickly at the correct conclusion, and have the capacity to stand the stress and strain of the work involved. His work cannot be measured, as in other industries, by the quantity of the output, for the quality of work is an essential element in measuring the capacity of the journalists. Moreover, insecurity of tenure is a peculiar feature of this profession. This is not to say that no insecurity exists in other professions but circumstances may arise in connection with profession of journalism which may lead to unemployment in this profession, which would not necessarily have that result in other professions. Their security depends to some extent on the whims and caprices of the proprietors. We have come across cages where a change in the ownership of the paper or a, change in the editorial policy of the paper has-resulted in a considerable change in the editorial staff. In the case of other industries a change in the proprietorship does not normally entail a change in the staff. But as the essential purpose of a newspaper is not only to give news but to educate &. d guide public opinion, a change in the proprietorship or in the editorial policy of the paper may result and in some cases has resulted in a wholesale change of the staff on the editorial side. These circumstances, which are peculiar to journalism must be borne in mind in framing any scheme for improvement of the conditions of working journalists." (para. 512).
The provisions contained in s. 17 of the Act in regard to the recovery of money due from the employers in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue also was not discriminatory. In the conflict between the employers and the employees it very often came about that the employers did not implement the measures which had been enacted for the benefit of the employees and the employees were thus hard put to realise and cash those benefits. Even the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, contained a like provision in s. 33C thereof (vide the amendment incorporated therein by Act 36 of 1956) which in its turn was a reproduction of the old s. 25-1 which had been inserted therein by Act 43 of 1953. It may be remembered that if the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which was a general Act, had been made applicable to the working journalists there would have been no quarrel with the same. Much less there could be any quarrel with the introduction of s. 17 into the impugned Act when the aim and object of such provision was to provide the working journalists who were a group by themselves from amongst employees employed in the newspaper establishments with a remedy for the recovery of the monies due to them in the same manner as the workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. We do not see anything discriminatory in making such a provision for the recovery of monies due by the employers to these working journalist's.
Similar is the position in regard to the alleged dis- crimination between -Press industry employers on the one hand and the other industrial employers on the other. The latter would, certainly be governed by the ordinary law regulating industrial relations under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Employers qua the working journalists again would be a class by them-
selves and if a law was enacted to operate as between them in the manner contemplated by the Act that could not be treated as discriminatory. If measures have got to be devised for the amelioration of the conditions of working journalists who are employed in the newspaper establishments, the only way in which it could be done was by directing this piece of legislation against the Press Industry employers in general. Even considering the Act as a measure of social welfare legislation the State could only make a beginning somewhere without embarking on similar legislations in relation to all other industries and if that was done in this case no charge could be levelled against the State that it was discriminating against one industry as compared with the others. The classification could well be founded on geographical basis or be according to objects or occupations or the like. The only question for consideration would be whether there was a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act sought to be challenged. In our opinion, both the conditions of permissible classification were fulfilled in the present case. The classification was based on an intelligible differentia which distinguished the working journalists from other employees of newspaper establishments and that differentia had a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved, viz., the amelioration of the conditions of service of working journalists.
The position, however, as it obtains in the present case is that there is no such provision to be found in the impugned Act. The impugned Act does not say that the Wage Board shall not give any reason for its decision. It is left to the discretion of the Wage Board whether it should give the reasons for its decision or not. In the absence of any such prohibition it is impossible for us to hold that the fundamental right conferred upon the petitioners under Art. 32 was in any manner whatever sought to be infringed. It may be noted that this point was not at all urged in the petitions which the petitioners had filed in this Court but was taken up only in the course of the arguments by the learned Counsel for the petitioners. It appears to have been a clear after-thought; but we have dealt with the same as it was somewhat -strenuously urged before us in the course of the arguments. We are of the opinion that the Act cannot be challenged as violative of the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 32 of the Constitution.
This ground concerns the classification of newspaper establishments on the basis of gross revenue. Such classification was challenged as illegal and unauthorised by the Act. The Act certainly says nothing about classification and could not be expected to do so. What the Act authorised it to do was to fix the rates of wages for working journalists having regard to the principles laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act. In fixing the wage structure the Wage Board constituted under the Act was perfectly at liberty if it thought necessary to classify the newspaper establishments in any manner it thought proper provided of course that such classification was not irrational. If the newspaper establishments all over the country had got to be considered in regard to fixing of rates of wages of working journalists employed therein it was inevitable that some sort of classification should be made having regard to the size and capacity of newspaper establishments. Various criteria could be adopted for the purpose of such classi- fication, viz., circulation of the newspaper, advertisement revenue, gross revenue, capital invested in the business, etc., etc. Even though the proportion of advertisement revenue to the gross revenue of newspaper establishments may be a relevant consideration for the purpose of classification, we are not, prepared to say that the Wage Board was not justified in adopting this mode of classification on the basis of gross revenue. It was perfectly within its competence to do so and if it adopted that as the proper basis for classification it cannot be said that the basis which it adopted was radically wrong or was such as to vitiate its decision. If the need for classification is accepted, as it should be, having regard to the various sizes and capacities of newspaper establishments all over the country it was certainly necessary to adopt a workable test for such classification and if the Wage Board had adopted classification on the basis of the gross revenue, we do not see any reason why that decision of its was in any manner whatever unwarranted.
This ground is based on the definition of " newspaper establishment" found in Sec. 2 (d) of the Act. " Newspaper establishment" is there defined as " an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not, for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate." So, the contention put forward is that " an establishment " can only mean " an establishment " and not a group of them, even though such an individual establishment may produce or publish one or more newspapers. The definition may comprise within its scope chains or multiple units, but even so, the establishment should be one individual establishment producing or publishing a chain of newspapers or multiple units of newspapers. If such chains or multiple units were, though belonging to some person or body of persons whether incorporated or not, produced or published by separate newspaper establishments, common control would not render. the constitution of several newspaper establishments as one establishment for the purpose of this definition, they would none the less be separate newspaper establishments though under common control.	Section
28. Other allowances:-In view of the paucity of evidence on the subject, the Board decided that the fixation of conveyance and other allowances should be left to collective bargaining between the working journalists and the newspaper establishments concerned.
The petitioners in Petitions Nos. 91 of' 1957, 99 of 1957, 100 of 1957, 101 of 1957 and 103 of 1957 also filed petitions for special leave to appeal against the decision of the Wage Board being Petitions Nos. 323, 346, 347, 348 and 359 of 1957 respectively and this Court granted the special leave in all these petitions under Art. 136 of the Constitution subject to the question of the maintainability of the appeals being open to be urged at the hearing. Civil Appeals arising out of these special leave petitions were ordered to be placed along with the Writ Petitions aforesaid for hearing and final disposal and Civil Appeals Nos. 699 of 1957, 700 of 1957, 701 of 1957, 702 of 1957 and 703 of 1957 arising therefrom thus came up for hearing and final disposal before us along with the Writ Petitions under Art. 32 mentioned above. We took up the hearing of the Writ Petitions first as they were more comprehensive in scope than the Civil Appeals filed by the respective parties and heard counsel at considerable length on the questions arising for our determination therein.
We may also notice here Recommendation 30, being the recommendation concerning the application of Minimum Wage- Fixing Machinery made by the International Labour Office, 1949 (2):
The representatives of the employers and the representatives of the employees who are appointed on the wage board along with an independent chairman and some other members, it is submitted, would necessarily have a bias in favour of those whom they represent and therefore would not be competent to be judges and the wage board thus constituted could hardly be called a judicial body.
(2) (1877)96 U-S- 727 ; 24 L. Ed. 877.
The contention under this head is thus elaborated on behalf of the petitioners:
(2) [1958] S.C.R. 308.
opinion on this matter" and the Court ultimately wound up by saving that ,whether the restrictions are reasonable or not would depend to a large extent on the nature of the trade and the conditions prevalent in it."
Foreign correspondent to The Times, six months period (Lowe v. Walter, (1892) 8 T. L. R. 358).
Where however an employee voluntarily resigns from service of the employer after a period of only three years, there will be no justification whatever for awarding him a gratuity and any such provision of the type which has been made in s. 5(1)(a)(iii) of the Act would certainly be unreasonable. We hold therefore that this provision imposes an unreasonable restriction on the petitioners' right to carry on business and is liable to be struck down as unconstitutional.
(d)not prescribing the major criterion of capacity to pay to be taken into consideration;
(f)permitting the Board the discretion to operate the procedure of the Industrial Disputes Act for some newspapers and any arbitrary procedure for others;
3.The classification made by the impugned Act is arbitrary and unreasonable, in so far as it removes the newspaper employers vis-a-vis working journalists from the general operation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and Act I of 1955.
It is in the light of these observations that we shall now proceed to consider whether the impugned Act violates the fundamental right of the petitioners guaranteed under Art. 14 of the Constitution.
This attack on the constitutionality of the Act also therefore fails.
Re. Article 32:-
(2) [1952] 1 K. B. 338.
(B)Because the decision itself infringed the fundamental rights of the petitioners. [ See Bidi Supply Co.v. Union of India & ors. (3) ].
Be. (1).
(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1122, 1127.
(3) [1956] S.C.R.267.
(4) [1956] S.C.R. 664.
Re. 2.
This note of the Chairman is very revealing and throws considerable light on the question whether particular circumstances were at all taken into consideration by the Wage Board before it arrived at its decision. Re. 5.
Re. 6.
This ground relates to grouping into chains or multiple units and the ground of attack is that such grouping is unauthorised by the Act.
Re. 7.
(2) A. I. R. 1956 Mad. 115, 122.
Re. 9.
Be. 10.
The last ground talks of the Wage Board being handicapped for want of Cost of Living Index. This ground also cannot avail the petitioners for the simple reason that the decision of the Wage Board itself referred in Clause 24 thereof to the all India cost of living index number published by the Labour Bureau of the Government of India 0 Base 1944: 100 and fixed the dearness allowance in relation to the same. These statistics were available to the Wage Board and it cannot be said that the Wage Board was in any manner whatever handicapped in that respect. On a consideration of all the grounds of attack thus levelled against the validity and the binding nature of the decision of the Wage Board, we have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the said decision cannot be sustained and must be set aside.
The petitions will, therefore, be allowed and the petitioners will be entitled to an order declaring that s. 5 (1) (a) (iii) of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, is ultra vires the Constitution of India and that the decision of the Wage Board dated April 30, 1957, is illegal and void. As regards the costs, in view of the fact that the petioners have failed in most of their contentions in regard to the constitutionality of the Act, the fairest, order would be that each party should bear and pay its own costs of these petitions.
Civil Appeals Nos. 699-703 of 1957.
These Civil Appeals are directed against the decision of the Wage Board and seek to set aside the same as destroying the very existence of the newspaper establishments concerned and infringing their fundamental rights. Special leave under Art. 136 of the Constitution was granted by this Court in respect of each of them, subject to the question of maintainability of the appeals being open to be urged. These appeals are also covered by the judgment just delivered by us in Petition No. 91 of 1957 & Ors., and the appellants would be entitled to a declaration in each one of them that the decision of the Wage Board is ultra vires the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, and therefore void and inoperative.
In view of the conclusion thus reached, we feel it unnecessary to consider whether the appeals would be maintainable under Art. 136 of the Constitution. The appellants having substantially succeeded in their respective petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution, the question has now become purely academic and we need not spend any time over the same.
The result therefore is that there will be no orders save that all the parties thereto shall bear and pay their own costs thereof.
Petitions allowed.
Appeals disposed of accordingly.	Conclusion
Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
AND & CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 699-703 of 1957.
Appeals by special leave from the decision of the Wage Board for Working Journalists published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary (Part IT, Section 3) dated May 11, 1957. 1957. Dec. 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, 20. 1958. Jan. 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28. M. K. Nambiar and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the petitioners in Petition No. 91 of 1957. -The Working Journalists Act, 1955, is ultra vires as it infringes the fundamental rights of the Petitioners guaranteed by the Constitution under Arts. 19 (1) (a), 19 (1) (g), 14 and 32. Article 19 (1) (a) which guarantees freedom of speech and expression includes the freedom of the employment of means to exercise those rights and consequently comprehends the freedom of the Press. The guarantee of an abstract freedom of expression would be meaningless unless it contemplated and included in its ambit all the means necessary for the practical application of the freedom. (Freedom of the Press-A Framework of Principles-Report of the Commission on Freedom of Press in the United States of America, 1947; Report of the Royal Commission for the Press in the United Kingdom 1949; Ramesh Thapar v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 594; Brij Bhusan v. State of Delhi, [1950] S. C. R. 605; Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; Lovell v, City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Orosjean v. American Press Co., 80 L; Ed. 660; Schneider v. Irvington, 84 L. Ed. 155.
Constitution of the United States of America, Revised and Annotated (1952), U. S. Govt. Printing Office pp. 792,
988). If the impugned Act is viewed as a whole it will appear that it authorised the fixation of salary of working journalists at a level which disables the running of the press. The impugned Act thus, impedes, controls and prohibits the free employment of the agencies of expression on that section of the Press which form its vocal chord and therefore the Act infringes the freedom contemplated under Art. 19 (1) (a) and is not saved by Art. 19 (2). In judging the validity of the enactment it must be tested by its operation and effect (Dwarkadas Srinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., [1954] S. C. R. 674, 683; Minnesota Ex Rel. Olson, 75 L. Ed. 1357). The Act also violates the right guaranteed by Art. 19 (1)
(g) of the Constitution as it places unreasonable restraint on the petitioners' freedom to carry on business (Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1950] S. C. R. 759; cited with approval in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, [1954] S. C. R. 803 and Ch. Tika Ramjidas v. State of U. P. [1956] S. C. R. 393; The State of Madras v. V. G. Row, [1952] S. C. R. 597, 606-607; The State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose, [1954] S. (C. R. 587; Virendra v. State of Punjab, A. 1. R. 1957 S. C.
896). The law imposing restrictions on fundamental rights must be reasonable not only in its substantive content but in its procedural content as well (Dr. N. B. Khare v. State of Delhi, [1950] S. C. R. 519; Ourbachan v. State of Punjab, [1952] S. C. R. 737). The relevant criteria for the fixation of wages were not laid down in s. 9 (1) of the Act. The criteria for the fixation of wages laid down in the Act were only relevant for fixing minimum rates of wages, though the word " minimum" used in the Bill 13 of 1955 as introduced in the Rajya Sabha was subsequently dropped before the Bill became the Act. It was not made incumbent on the Wage Board to consider the capacity of industry to pay as an essential criterion or a major factor in fixing wages. The other circumstances, viz., " any other circumstances which to the Board may seem relevant "
The Act is discriminatory in character and violates Art. 14 of the Constitution. It gives the working journalists a more favoured treatment as compared to other employees in several ways, statutory benefits by ,way of retrenchment compensation, gratuity, limitation of the hours of work and leave, not enjoyed by others in comparable employments. It is restricted in its scope to a selected section of newspaper employees. it gives them the benefit of the wage fixation by devising machinery in the form of a Pay Commission without the existence of any industrial dispute, without prescribing the major criterion of capacity to pay to be taken into consideration; (Britannia Bldg. and Iron Co. Ltd., (1954) 1 L. L. J. 651, 654; Union Drug Co. Ltd., (1954) 1 L. L. J. 766, 767; Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, pp. 13-15, paras. 21, 23 and
24); or following the procedure prescribed by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, even in disregard of principles of audi alteram partem. The employers of the newspaper establishments are subjected to discriminatory treatment by the Act in that (1) they are singled out from all other industrial employers who are covered by the ordinary law regulating industrial relations under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; (ii) they have been saddled with new burdens in regard to a section of their workers in matters of gratuity, compensation, hours of work and wages; (iii) s. 12 of the Act makes the decision of the Wage Board binding only on the employers and not on the employees and(iv) s. 17 provides for recovery of money from employers only and not from employees in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.
The classification made by the impugned Act is arbitrary and unreasonable in so far as it removes the newspaper employers vis-a-vis the working journalists from the general operation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
The right to apply to Supreme Court for enforcement of a fundamental right under Art. 32 is itself a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution (Ramesh Thapar V. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 594, 597). The right to claim a writ of certiorari against a decision is dependent on the fact that the impugned decision on its face is a "
The classification of newspapers on the basis of gross revenue is contrary to the provisions of the Act. In the gross revenue which is earned by newspaper establishments advertisement revenue ordinarily forms a large bulk of such revenue and unless the proportion of advertisement revenue to the gross revenue were taken into consideration it would not be possible to form a correct estimate of the financial status of a newspaper establishment with a view to its classification. Profit and loss of newspaper establishment should. be the proper test and if that test were adopted it would give an altogether different picture.
Until now whenever the wage had to be fixed for an industry the relevant consideration had always been the capacity of the industry to pay. The wages which are normally fixed after a general inquiry' applicable to the whole industry have always been minimum wages. Assessment of a wage level and scale only by reference to gross revenue was erroneous. The decision suffers from another major defect in computing gross revenue not for each newspaper but collectively for the Organization which might be running a number of papers. The result of this mode of calculation was that an organisation publishing a large number of papers might well fall within the top class by virtue of its gross revenue although each one of the papers taken individually might be running at a loss. This process of considering the multiple units or a chain of newspapers as one establishment has affected the petitioners adversely and is unauthorised by the Act. The Wage Board was not authorised by the Act to fix the wages of working journalists in relation to the whole industry but could do so only in respect of individual establishments as will appear from the definition of a "
The purpose of the constitutional guarantee of free speech is to prevent public authority from assuming the guardianship of the public mind (Thomas v. Collins, 89 L. Ed. 430; The Supreme Court and the right of Free Speech and Press-Annotation in 93 L. Ed. 1151 ; Beauhairnais v. Illinois, 96 L. Ed. 919, 943dissenting opinion of Douglas, J.). While the Press enjoys no immunity from the application of the general laws relating to industrial relations, an Act or any of its provision would violate the right of free speech and expression if it lays a direct and preferential burden on the freedom of the Press ; if it has a tendency to curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of disseminating information; if it fetters the petitioners' freedom to choose the means of exercising' their right to freedom of expression and if it is likely to undermine the independence of the Press by having to seek Government aid. The Act singles out the Press for levying upon it a direct burden which is excessive and so restrictive as to be prohibitive. It begets a class of workers whose benefits and rights are given a preferential enforceability parallel to that of a public debt. The impugned Act by s. 9 leaves, in violation of the Constitution, the fixation of wages to an agency invested with arbitrary and uncannily power to impose an indeterminate burden on the wage structure of the Press, such employer and employee relations at its discretion as it thinks fit, and such burden and restrictions for such time as it thinks fit. The Act and the decision of the Wage Board, which under the Act becomes enforceable as a part of it, have imposed an excessive and prohibitive burden which will have a tendency to curtail the revenue and restrict circulation which is the means of imparting information and giving free expression to speech, impose a penality on the petitioners' right to choose the instruments for its exercise or to seek alternative media of expression, drive the Press to seek Government aid in order to survive and prevent newspapers from being started. The Act has created an impossible situation in which the petitioner could only say " I cannot live, I cannot die and I cannot commit suicide ". Even if the petitioners were to close down their business and dispose of all their assets they would not be in a position to meet all the liabilities.
The Constitution does not permit any abridgment of the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression unless it falls within the categories of restrictions mentioned in Art. 19(2). When the permitted restrictions were incorporated special care was taken by the framers of the Constitution to see that freedom of speech was protected and that the right should not be at the mercy of the legislature which might want to impose excessive burden on the Press. It is for this reason that the " Public interest " restriction in Art. 19(6) appearing against the fundamental right in Art. 19(1)(g) is not to be found in Art. 19(2).A distinction has to be drawn between the Constitution of U. S. A. and India. What is known as the " due process of law " in America has been specifically omitted from the Constitution of India. In U. S. A. the " due process " clause enabled the Supreme Court to read into the Constitution any doctrine restrictive of the fundamental right, e. g., in the 1930's the U. S. Supreme Court had held that statutory fixation of minimum wage in the newspaper industry was violation of fundamental rights of free speech, but after some years the same Court acting under the discretion given by the due process clause took cognizance of altered circumstances in labour relations and held that the imposition of a minimum wage on the Press did not violate the fundamental right (Constitution of the United States of America, Revised and Annotated (1952), U. S. Govt. Printing Office, pp. 792, 988). The Indian Constitution does not permit restriction of freedom of speech except under the limitation set by Art. 19(2). Restrictions that could be held intra vires in respect of other industries would still be ultra vires under Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution in respect of the Press industry because of the special privilege of right of free speech. Any direct restriction placed by Government on the Press would be violation of Art. 19(1)(a), and therefore even if the Government had sought to impose a minimum wage for the Press by direct legislation it would have been equally unconstitutional. This illegality, however, would not attach to the finding of an adjudicatory machinery such as was contemplated under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Where Government provided a media for the settlement of disputes and claims between citizen,,, and citizens there was no question of any contravention of fundamental rights which were protected against governmental encroachment.
The various sections of the Act have the effect of placing restrictions on the press which would in evitably have the effect of restricting the freedom of speech and expression in contravention of Art. 19 (1) (a). The Act has created a privileged class of working journalists above the other workers either in this country or anywhere also, above contract and above the law of the land.
The Wage Board has exceeded its authority and has arrived at conclusions and findings which restricts the fundamental rights of the petitioners. The Act authorizes the Central Government to constitute a Wage Board for fixing rates of wages. This does not authorize the Board to enter into the wider question of determination of scales of pay. Fixing could only mean fixing with reference to a point of time. The Legislature did not contemplate that single wage should determine the wage scales, for all time to come The whole framework of the Act was based on minimum wage and the sudden removal of the word " minimum " has caused all these difficulties. " Rates of wages " and not " scales of wages", the Wage Board was to consider. The term " rates of wages applies only to a particular point of time. [Sinha, J.-Section 9 (2) of the Act says that the Board may fix "rates of wages for time work and for piece work ". They cannot have any reference to scales. The same words in the statute mean the same thing. They cannot mean different things in different sections.] Yes. These words are used again and again in the Act. In the Minimun Wages Act, the Payment of Wages Act, etc., where the same expression " rates of wages " is used to indicate a wage fixed in time and amount. The Wage Board has exceeded its power in fixing the scales of wages and increments and thereby places a fetter on the Press, not contemplated by the Act.
The Act and the Wage Board have disregarded all considerations which according to authority and law were germane to the proper fixation of wages without placing restrictions on fundamental rights. Even the Minimum Wages Act provides for periodical reviews, and proposals for minimum wages should be notified for inviting the opinions.
The decision of the Wage Board has been arrived at in violation of the procedure prescribed by s. 11 of the impugned Act and in violation of the rules of natural justice and is thus illegal.
The Wage Board has been unreasonable in basing wages on revenue from all sources rather than on the revenue which the working journalists contributed by their labour. Classification of newspapers on the basis of the gross revenue of all papers run by an Organisation and fixation of wages on such classification has led to results which are absurd and discriminatory in effect and ignore the principle enunciated by the Act itself. As an example, take the case of a paper with small circulation in Kutch which is placed in a higher category than a paper in Bombay simply because the former is part of a larger Organisation. The Wage Board has not taken care to remain within the terms of the impugned Act, namely, that the wages should be based on regional consideration.
The Wage Board has given its decision in complete disregard of the newspapers' capacity to pay. it did not take proper care in framing its decision. Lack of such care in framing its decision makes it unreasonable and hence restrictive of fundamental rights.
The Wage Board has exceeded its authority by giving retrospective effect to the wage structure devised by it. This is invalid and ultra vires the Act.
Section 12 of the Act creates one-sided obligation by making decision of the Board binding only on the employers. Such one sided obligation can be appropriate when a minimum subsistence wage is fixed but cannot attach to payment of wages at luxury levels. This unilateral obligation on the employer leaves it open to the journalists to agitate for an increase in wages before an industrial tribunal, but it precludes the employer from seeking any alteration under any circumstances. The Act has provided no machinery for a review or revision of the wage structure even if circumstances changed.
Restrictions on fundamental right to do business arise because the Act and the decision of the Wage Board have the effect, firstly, of considerably increasing the operating cost and, secondly, of fettering the conditions of service or the terms of the contract of service between the employer and the employee.
By disregarding the disparity in regional conditions the Wage Board has discriminated between paper and paper, employer and employer and employee and employee. S. P. Sinha, Gurbachan Singh, Harbans Singh and R. Patnaik, for the petitioners in Petition No. 103 of 1957. S. S. Shukla, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos. 116 to 118 of 1957.
M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. I (The Union of India) in all the Petitions. Before going into the merits of the case it is necessary to examine the background and the perspective in which the Act was enacted, the careful inquiry which preceded its enactment and the conditions which the Act was designed to meet. (Report of the Press Commission, dated July 14, 1954; Report of the Inquiry Committee constituted in 1947; Report of the C. P. and Berar Press Inquiry Committee constituted on March 27, 1948).
The Act does not infringe any of the fundamental rights of the petitioners guaranteed under Arts. 19(J) (a), 19(1)(g), 14 and 32 of the Constitution. The functions of the Wage Board constituted tinder s. 8 of the Act were not judicial or quasi-judicial in character; the fixation of the rates of wages by the Wage Board was a legislative act and not a judicial one; the Wage Board arrived at its decision on a consideration of all the criteria laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act for fixation of wages and the material as well as the evidence placed before it; a large number of the decisions of the Wage Board was unanimous; under the Act the Wage Board has the power and authority to fix the scales of wages also and to give retrospective operation to its decision. The financial position of the petitioners was not such as to lead to their collapse as a sequel to the enactment of the provisions of the Act and the decision of the Wage Board.
Regarding alleged infringement of Art. 19(1)(a), I submit that the legislation should be examined in order to determine whether it is legislation directly in respect to the fundamental rights mentioned in the Constitution. The principle enunciated by the Supreme Courtney several decisions is that when a legislation is attacked on the round of contravention of a fundamental right, the Court must first examine whether it directly deals with the fundamental right. If the legislation is not one directly with respect to a fundamental right no further question arises, (A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 88, per Kania, C. J., Ram Singh v. State of Delhi, [1951] S.C.R. 451, 455). The Supreme Court has also in this connection invoked the doctrine of "pith and substance ". The fact that a legislation, directed in its path and substance to regulate gambling, incidentally placed certain restrictions on business was held not to make the law violative of the fundamental right to carry on business. (State of Bombay v. R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala, [1957] S. C. R.
874). The provisions of the Act are clearly designed to regulate the conditions of service of journalists and not the freedom of expression or speech, and therefore no question of the infringement of fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(a) arises. The contention of the petitioners based on American decisions, e. g., Minnesota Ex Rel. Olson (75 L. Ed. 1357) cannot be sustained. First, the provisions of the American Constitution are substantially different; secondly, the American Courts have adopted the same view as our Supreme Court in A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras, [1950] S. C. R. 88, and other cases. (The Associated Press v. The National Labour Relations Board, 81 L. Ed. 953,960- 966; Mabee v. White Plains Publishing Co., 90 L. Ed. 607, 613-where application of U. S. Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938, to newspaper undertakings was held not to infringe freedom of speech; Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling, 90 L. Ed. 614, 621; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 87 L. Ed. 1292).
The restrictions under Art. 19(6) on the freedom to carry oil business under Art. 19(1)(g) will not cease to be reasonable even if such restrictions resulted in prohibition of carrying on business in certain cases. Such restrictions can be imposed if they are in the interest of the general public. Having regard to the Report of the Committee on Fair Wages appointed by the Government of India and the practice prevailing in other countries, the Act has not adopted any unusual procedure in constituting a Wage Board for the determination of rates of wages of working journalists. The Act follows the recommendations of the Press Commission for the most part. The only important deviation it has made is that whereas the Press Commission had recommended fixation of a minimum wage, the Act provides for fixation of all wages. Under the directive principles of State Policy (Art. 43 of the Constitution) the goal was not merely a minimum wage but a fair wage and a living wage. We have to march to that goal.
[Gajendragadkar, J.-True, but in marching to that goal we have to consider the capacity to pay.] Yes, capacity to pay region-wise and capacity to pay country-wise but not capacity to pay unit-wise, that is, according to each newspaper's capacity.
The Court has to consider what the Legislature intended. The term " minimum wage" has been understood in two different senses, the first being an " industrial minimum wage " and the second a " statutory minimum wage ". Is it an " industrial minimum ", or is it a " statutory minimum " ? An " industrial minimum " is a subsistence wage that has to be paid by any unit if it wishes to exist; a " statutory minimum " is someting more than a subsistence level wage and may be any level which the Legislature thinks fit to impose. The statutory minimum wage need not be confined to fixing a single determinate amount but can legitimately include the fixing of a scale of wage. " Wages " has been defined very comprehensively in s. 2(rr) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and in the Third and Fourth Schedule to that Act wages are stated to include the period and mode of payment. [Sinha, J. Does it refer to scales ?] Wages include in its ambit the scales. It was on this basis that various Industrial Tribunals have fixed scales. Even the Supreme Court decided that way.
[Sinha, J. My point is whether the question has been raised and decided or has it been only assumed ?] The matter, so far as I know, has not been raised and decided. It has only been assumed.
Minimum " was dropped. One of the criteria specified in s. 9(1) of the Act is the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments. This has no reference to minimum wage (Nellimarla Jute Mills, (1953) 1 L. L. J. 666). It shows that s. 9(1) contemplates fixation of rates of wages which are higher than the bare subsistence or industrial minimum wage. The criterion " the circumstances relating to newspaper industry in different regions of the country " in s. 9(1) can have no other meaning than the capacity to pay region-wise. The discretion given to the Wage Board to consider " any other circumstances which to the Board may seem relevant" is no doubt subjective. It is the Board which has to decide what is relevant and what is not. Such power is neither unreasonable nor arbitrary. The general policy with regard to the Wage Board was that they were given the widest discretion and there was no question of their discretion being fettered. Even if the Legislature left the fixation of wage to the Board without laying down any criteria it would have been a competent legislative Act because of the nature of the Board. In fact, three criteria have been laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act. Having regard to the variety and complexity of the matters involved it was not possible for the Legislature itself to visualise or indicate the various circumstances which might be relevant.
There is nothing unusual or arbitrary in leaving to the Wage Board a wide discretion in the matter of its procedure. In U. K. the Central Co-ordinating Committee under the Wage Councils Act, 1945, and the Agricultural Wages Board under the Agricultural Wages Regulation Act, 1924, are authorised to regulate their own proceedings. No formal procedure has been prescribed for Wage Boards in Australia. The inclusion of proofreaders in the definition of "Working Journalist" in s. 2(1) of the Act is not unreasonable. Proof-readers occupy a very important position in the editorial staff of a newspaper (Kemsley- Manual of Journalism, p. 337, B. Sen Gupta-Journalism as a Career (1955 Edn.). There is nothing unreasonable in the period of notice for retrenchment in s. 3(2) of the Act. (Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 22, p. 150, para. 249 foot-note (e)). The retrospective operation of compensation in certain cases given by s. 4 of the Act is designed to meet the few cases of retrenchment by the management anticipating the implementation of the recommendation of the Press Commission and cannot be said to be unreasonable. There is nothing unusual in s. 5 of the Act which provides for a gratuity. Gratuity is recognised by Industrial Tribunals (Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, [1955] L. A. C. 155, 158; Nundydroog Mines Ltd., [1956] L. A. C. 265, 267). Under the law of various countries payment of indemnity to an employee who voluntarily resigns is provided for (Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in the World Today (1957) UNESCO publication at p. 404 ; Collective Agreement between the Geneva Press Association and the Geneva Union of Newspaper Publishers dated April 1, 1948). Even in India Labour Courts have awarded gratuity on voluntary resignation (Cipla Ltd., (1955) 11 L. L. J. 355, 358; Indian Oxygen and Acetylene Co. Ltd., (1956) 1 L. L. J.
435). The hours of work provided in s. 6 of the Act cannot be said to be unreasonable having regard to the nature of work to be done by a working journalist. Such hours of work are fixed by s. 54 of the Factories Act, 1948, (See also, Mines Act, 1952; Shops and Establishments Acts of different States in -India). Sections 8 to II deal with the constitution of the Wage Board and the fixation of rates of wages by the Board. The Wage Board was to consist of an equal number of representatives of employers and employees and an independent chairman. There is nothing unreasonable in the constitution of the Board. The principles for the guidance of the Wage Board in the matter of fixation of wages have been laid down by the Act. It cannot, therefore, be said that these provisions are unreasonable. Section 17 of the Act relates only to the mode of recovery of money from an employer and does not impose any financial burden; therefore it could not be said that it infringes Art. 19(1)(g).
Article 14 of the Constitution does not forbid reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation (Budhan Choudhry v. The State of Bihar, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 1045, 1048). The work of a journalist is peculiar and demands a high degree of general education and some kind of specialised training (Report of the Press Commission, para. 512; Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in the World Today (1951) UNESCO publication at p. 403). The working journalists are a class by themselves apart from the other employees of the newspaper establishments and also employees in other industries. They can be singled out for the purpose of -ameliorating their conditions of service. There would be no discrimination if special. legislation is enacted for the benefit of this class and a special machinery is created for fixing the rates of its wages different from the machinery for other workmen. Even if the Act be considered as a social welfare measure the State can only make a beginning somewhere. Such a measure need not be all embracing. There is nothing unreasonable in s. 12 of the Act which makes the decision of the Board binding on the employers only. A provision which has for its object the protection of employees cannot be said to be repugnant to Art. 14 on the ground that it discriminates against the employers (South Bank Ltd. v. Pichuthayappan, A. 1. R. 1954 Madras 377). Section 17 of the Act is for the benefit of the working journalists It enables him to realise the money due from an employer under the Act. Similar provision is to be found in s. 33C of the Industrial Disputes Act. There is nothing discriminatory in a provision which governs employees in other industries being extended to working journalists. The object sought to be achieved by the Act is the amelioration of the conditions of service of working journalists. The classification is based on intelligible differentiate which distinguish them from other employees of the newspaper establishments and also in other industries. These differentiae have a rational basis. The legislation amply fulfils the conditions of permissible classification. It is " fantastic " to contend that the Act infringes Art. 32 of the Constitution. The Act does not prohibit the Wage Board from giving a reason for its decision. No question therefore arises of the infringement of the fundamental right of the petitioners under Art. 32.
Assuming any provision of the Act is void then the question will be whether it is severable. If it is severable then the whole Act will not be void but only the section. Similarly, if the court finds that the Act is constitutional but a decision of the Wage Board is ultra vires the Act or unconstitutional the Court will strike down such decision. That will not affect the validity of the Act. (State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, [1951] S. C. R. 682; State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S. C. R. 1069 and R. M.,D. Chamarbaugwala v. The Union of India, [1957] S. C. R. 930).
In regard to the decisions of the Wage Board the Court has to consider first, whether the decisions are intra vires the Act-since an authority to whom the power of subordinate legislation is delegated cannot act contrary to the statute, and secondly, do the decisions being a part of the Act in any way contravene the Constitution. These are the only questions which arise in regard to the decisions of the Wage Board. No question arises of its procedure being in accordance with the principles of the natural justice nor of the application of audi alteram partem.
[Bhagwati, J.-They say it is contrary to the principles of natural justice-audi alteram partem.] That is a maxim about which we have heard so much. It has, no application to this case of delegated legislation. [Bhagwati, J.-Can it not be urged, having regard to s. 11, that the Legislature did not contemplate that the Wage Board was to function as delegated authority because it gives the choice of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act being followed by the Board ?] No, even for a subordinate legislative authority there are procedures to be followed for arriving at certain conclusions.
[Kapur, J.-Is it not necessary to hear everybody who may be affected by the decisions of the Board ?] No question of hearing arises. It is a question of a subordinate legislative authority gathering such information as it wants and it is obliged to take into consideration all the relevant circumstances.
Certiorari and prohibition lie only in respect of judicial or quasi-judicial acts. (Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn. Vol. 11, p. 55, para. 114). The principle audi alteram partem also applies only to judicial or quasi- judicial proceedings. (Patterson v. Dist. Commr. of Accrator, [1948] A. C. 341). For a distinction between judicial and legislative functions, See Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 8th Edn. Vol. 1, p. 185; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Co. Ltd., 211 U.S. 210, 226-227, Per Holmes J.; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 57 L. Ed. 1479, 1482; Louisville and Nashville Railroad Co. v. Green Garrett, 58 L. Ed. 229, 239). The functions of the Wage Board in the United Kingdom have been characterised by writers as legislative in character. (Robson's Justice and Administrative Law, 3rd Edn. p. 608; Griffith's Principles of Administrative Law, p. 39; Barbara Wootton, Social Foundations of Wage Policy, Modern methods of Wage determination, p. 88). This is also the case in Australia. (Federated Saw Mills Case, 8 C. L. R. 465; Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation v. Whybrow and Co., 10 C. L. R. 266, 289, 317, per Isaacs, J.). The Labour and Industry Act, 1953, of Victoria (Australia) in s. 39 (2) gives statutory recognition to the decisions in 8 C. L. R. 365 and 10 C. L. R. 266, by providing that every determination shall have force, validity and effect as if enacted in the Act. The very constitution of the Wage Board under the impugned Act, with an equal number of representatives of employers and employees with an independent chairman is against its being judicial or quasi- judicial in character, for, no man should be judge in his own cause. (Franklin v. Minister of Town and Country Planning, [1948] A. C. 87, 103).
It is incorrect to infer that once the Wage Board is constituted under s. 8 of the Act the power of the Government under the Act is exhausted and nothing more can be done. The power to constitute the Board can by virtue of s. 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, be used from time to time as the occasion demands. There was nothing wrong in the Central Government reconstituting the Board on the resignation of Shri K. P. Keshava Menon. The decision by majority is provided by Rules framed by the Central Government under s. 20 of the Act which became a part of the Act. Hence a decision by a majority in conformity with the Rules under the Act cannot be impeached.
In examining the decisions of the Wage Board the Court will attach to them the same consideration and weight as to a decision by a legislature. (Pacific States Box and Basketing Co. v. White, 80 L. Ed. 138; 296 U. S. 170).
Under s. II of the Act the Wage Board "may" exercise the powers and follow the procedure laid down under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. There is nothing to warrant the provision being read as obligatory or mandatory. The provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act are basically enacted for the adjudication of disputes between two parties and they are on their face inapplicable to the Wage Board. That is precisely why the Board was given the option to exercise some of the powers conferred by the Industrial Disputes Act or to follow procedures prescribed in that Act. It is not incumbent under the Act on the Wage Board to give any reasons for its decisons. The Board would be perfectly within its right if it chose not to give any reasons. While judging the reasonableness of the wage structure for the whole industry it would be entirely fallacious to see how it hit a particular newspaper or a unit. Multiple units or chains could be classified on the basis of the total gross revenues of all the constituent units because economies would be possible in group operations resulting in the reduction of the cost of production. There is nothing in the Act which prohibits the Wage Board from grouping into chains or multiple units. Further, there is nothing in the Act to prohibit the treating of several newspaper establish- ments publishing one or more newspapers though in different parts of the country as one establishment for fixing rates of wages.
Some sort of classification was inevitable when the newspaper establishments all over the country had to be considered for fixing the rates of wages. If the Wage Board adopted gross revenue as a workable basis for classification there was nothing wrong and that fact could not vitiate its decision. Profits of newspaper establishments were vague and difficult to ascertain as many things are mixed up in calculating profit. It would be dangerous to go by the profit and loss of individual concerns to ascertain their capacity to pay. Even the Bank Award has taken the "turnover" or the aggregate resources as the basis of the classification. The basis of gross revenue was the only proper and convenient method of ascertaining the actual status of a newspaper establishment for fixing a wage structure.
Wage-structure recommended by the Board would show that compared with the scales and salaries obtaining now in many of the newspaper establishments the scales given by the Board were not exorbitant or unreasonable. What is to be considered is the industry region-wise and not individual units. It may be that individual units may suffer hardship or even go out of existence but that would not be a relevant consideration. [Gajendragadkar, J.-If the decisions are to be attacked effectively under Art. 19(1)(g), petitioners have to show that A or B or C class of paper will cease to exist, or, taken as a class they cannot bear the burden.] That is the way the matter should be approached. The figures in individual statements of the petitioners furnish no evidence whatsoever of the unreasonableness of the wage fixation.
The decision is given retrospective effect from the date of constitution of the Board. The Act itself in s. 13 contemplates interim relief. Instead of granting any interim relief the Board decided to give retrospective effect to its decision.
A.V. Viswanatha Sastri, S. Viswanathan, B. R. L. lyengar, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 3 in Petition No. 91 of 1957. The balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of the petitioner company for several years when analysed show that with normally prudent management the earnings of the Indian Express group of newspapers admit of payment to working journalists on the scale fixed by the Wage Board and the decision of the Wage Board was legally valid and just having regard to the several factors to be taken into consideration in fixing a fair wage.
N. C. Chatterjee, A. S. R. Chari, S. Viswanathan,A. N. Sinha, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the Indian Federation of Working Journalists in all the Petitions, and for the ]Delhi Union of Journalists in Petition No. 103 of 1957. It is open to Parliament to delegate to the Wage Board the power to legislate with regard to certain subjects. The so-called decision of the Wage Board was a valid exercise of such power by a subordinate legislative body functioning under specified conditions under Parliamentary mandate with the limits prescribed by the Constitution.
Even if the Wage Board is held to be a quasijudicial body, it acted according to the principle of audi alteram partem and no prerogative writ should be issued to disturb findings arrived at by such a body.
M. K. Nambiar, in reply. The Wage Board was not intended to exercise powers of legislation but those of a judicial nature. Under s. 10 of the Working Journalist,-, Act the Board has to make a "decision", and this term has been used in several enactments to indicate a determination by a judicial tribunal. Under s. 8 the decision of the Board has to be made in accordance with the provisions of the Act and therefore the Board had the function of applying the law and not making a law. The Wage 'Board is required under s. 11 to adopt the law procedure as is adopted by Industrial Tribunal.-,. The decision of the Board is declared to be binding only on some persons and not all. It can be executed in the same manner as the award of an Industrial Tribunal. Its character is identical to that of an award made by an industrial tribunal and the Supreme Court has held that a tribunal does not exercise legislative functions. Parliament did not intend to confer any powers of subordinate legislation on the Board. This is clear from the rules of business of the Lok Sabha read with the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Bill. In, the memorandum regarding delegated legislation appended to the Bill the constitution of the Wage Board in the matter of fixation of wages had not been shown as a piece of delegated legislation. (The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha (1957)-Rule 70). The decision of the Wage Board was not to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament. This would have been so had the fixation of wages by the Board was a delegated legislation (laid Rule
317). The Wage Board was not constituted as sub-legislative authority. The question is not what the legislature could have enacted but whether by virtue of powers of the Wage Board under the Act as enacted, it is a legislative body or a tribunal with adjudicators functions The Board does not possess any powers of delegated legislation, It has been given all the trappings which were necessary to characterize it as a judicial body. In interpreting the Act the Court is entitled to take into consideration the surrounding circumstances, the object of the legislation and also whether a particular term used in legislation was considered by the legislature at the time of enactment. The court ought to take into consideration the entire background and the effect of dropping of the term "minimum" from the enactment. The Press Commission had directed its attention exclusively to the question of fixing minimum wage and the Act in s. 9 followed the pattern and purported to implement the recommendations of the Press Commission. The Press Commission in considering minimum wage ignored the capacity to pay. The Act, similarly, being based on the Report of the Press Commission has made no provision for considering the capacity to pay. This omission which was appropriate with regard to minimum wages rendered the fixation of wages at a different level unreasonable and therefore void. The content of the term "minimum wage" would not be changed by merely calling it a "statutory" minimum.
Section 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, can apply if the enactment does not rule it out by necessary implication. The entire scheme of the impugned Act shows that only one Wage Board and one decision is contemplated. It is not open to the Government to reconstitute the Wage Board as and when they desire.
Munshi, in reply. The doctrine of "pith and substance" can be applied only to determine the jurisdiction of the legislature to enact a certain legislation. Whether or not the Act imposes a direct burden, the Court should see if the Act is a special law singling out an industry for laying the burden on it. If it does so, as in the present Act, it will amount to a direct burden. If it is a general law it would not be a direct burden.
The Act stands alone in being arbitrary and excessive and is without parallel in any other country. The Act is unique in that (1) it provides for gratuity even on voluntary resignation. (2) it gives power to the Wage Board to fix indeterminate wages investing them with attributes of minimum wages, and (3) it confers on the Board power to fix wages (i) without specifying essential standards, (ii) without casting a duty to follow a reasonable procedure, (iii) without any control by an appellate tribunal or court, and (iv) without providing any opportunity to the parties concerned to be heard on the merits of the proposal it makes. In other countries there are various safeguards and checks against arbitrary wage decisions. (U. K. Wage Councils Act, 1945; U. S. Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938; Factories and Shops Act, 1905, new Act of 1928 of Victoria, Australia).
[Sinha, J. All these criticisms would be out of place if it is held that the work of the Wage Board was legislative and not judicial].
No. If the mechanism of the Act itself is such that it is unreasonably restrictive of rights to trade then the Act has to be struck down as void under Art. 19 (1)(g). Even if it is held that there was no excessive delegation, it is still open to the Court to see whether the restrictions impinged on the Constitutional safeguards tinder Art. 19 (1)(g).
Fixation of scales of wages on the basis of grossrevenue without taking into account the liability of newspapers is a devastating doctrine in industrial relations. The Wage Board is not a sub-legislative body; but even if it is, it has to act judicially and is subject to writs of certiorari. Even if its decisions become assimilated in the Act it must be considered to be a quasi-judicial body, since it is expected to carry out a preliminary investigation before recording its findings.
The functions of the Wage Board cannot be characterised either exclusively legislative or exclusively judicial. The functions performed by administrative agencies do not fall in water tight compartments. They may be partly legislative, partly judicial and partly administrative (Stason and Cooper, Cases and other Materials on Administrative Tribunals). The Court has to consider whether the administrative agency performs a predominantly legislative or judicial function and determine its character accordingly (Village of Saratoga Springs v. Saratoga Gas Electric Light and Power Co., (1908) 191 New York 123 People ex rel. Central Park North and East River Co. v. Willcox, (1909) 194 New York 383). In the United Kingdom the decisions of the Wage Councils in the shape of wage regulations proposal acquires legislative character from the order made by the Minister giving effect to the proposals. In Australia the Factories and Shops Act, 1905, and the Labour and Industry Act, 1953, Section 39(2) of Victoria by express provision invests the determination of the Special Board with the characteristics of a legislative act. Under the Fair Labour Standards Act, 1938, of U. S. A. the Wage orders ultimately approved by the Administrator are subject to judicial review. In India under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, the recommendations of the Committees are forwarded to the appropriate Government who by notification as a token of approval, in the official Gazette, fix minimum wages in respect of each scheduled employment. Under the recent amendment of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946, the Wage Boards constituted under the Act are to follow the procedure of the Industrial Court in respect of arbitration proceedings and it cannot be said that they perform any legislative function. The Wage Board under the impugned Act, in spite of its being an administrative body or sub- legislative body may nevertheless be exercising quasi- judicial functions if certain conditions are fulfilled (Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, pp. 55-56; Rex v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee, Ex-parte R. A. Brand and Co. Ltd., [1952] 2 Q. B. 413, 428; Rex v. The London County Council, Ex-parte the Entertainments Protection Association Ltd., [1931] 2 K. B. 215, 233-234; Board of Edu- cation v. Rice, [1911] A. C. 179,182; Allen C. K. Law and Order - 1956 Edn., pp. 102, 256, 257).
The Wage Board has not given any attention to the paramount consideration of capacity to pay as it should, in reason, have done. At no time was any question asked as to the wage burden the Wage Board's scales would impose on the industry as a ,whole or on a particular unit. The specific burden which the Board proposed to impose has never been put even indirectly. At no time has it been considered what would be the potential burden on the industry if the non- journalists in newspaper establishments made similar demands. No consideration has ever been given about the effect on the industry or on a unit of the retrospective operation of the wage scales.
A. S. R. Chari, S. Viswanathan, B. R. L. Iyengar,J. B. Dadachanji and S. N. Andley, for the Federation of Press Trust of India Employees' Union, Bombay Union of Journalists and Gujrat Working Journalists Union.
R. Ganapathy Iyer and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the' appellants in C. A. No. 699 of 1957.
L. K. Jha, S. S. Shukla and R. J. Joshi, for the appellants in C. A. Nos. 700 to 702 of 1957.
S. P. Sinha, Harbans Singh and R. Patnaik, for the appellants in C. A. No. 703 of 1957.
B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. I in all the appeals.
N. C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji and S. N. Andley, for the Indian Federation of Working Journalists in all appeals, respondent No. 2 in C. A. No. 700 of 1957 and respondent No. B. R. L. Iyengar, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for respondent No. 3 in C. A. 699 of 1957. 1958. March 19. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BHAGWATI J.-These petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution raise the question as to the vires of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscel- laneous Provisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955), hereinafter referred to as "the Act" and the decision of the Wage Board constituted thereunder. As they raise common questions of law and fact they can be dealt with under one common judgment.
In order to appreciate the rival contentions of the parties it will be helpful to trace the history of the events which led to the enactment of the impugned Act.
The newspaper industry in India did not originally start as an industry, but started as individual newspapers founded by leaders in the national, political, social and economic fields. During the last half a century, however, it developed characteristics of a profit making industry in which big industrialists invested money and combines controlling several newspapers all over the country also became the special feature of this development. The working journalists except for the comparatively large number that were found concentrated in the big metropolitan cities, were scattered all over the country and for the last ten years and more agitated that some means should be found by which those working in the newspaper industry were enabled to have their wages and salaries, their dearness allowance and other allowances, their retirement benefits, their rules of leave and conditions of service, enquired into by some impartial agency or authority, who would be empowered to fix just and reasonable terms and conditions of service for working journalists as a whole. Isolated attempts were made by the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh Governments in this behalf. On June 18, 1947, the Government of Uttar Pradesh appointed a committee to enquire into the conditions of work of the employees of the newspaper industry in the Uttar Pradesh.
On March 27, 1948, the Government of Central Provinces & Berar also appointed an Inquiry Committee to examine and report on certain questions relating to the general working of the newspaper industry in the province, including the general conditions of work affecting the editorial and other staff of newspapers, their emoluments including dearness allowance, leave, provident fund, pensionary benefits, etc. The Committees aforesaid made their reports on the respective dates March 31, 1949, and March 27, 1948, making certain recommendations. The All-India problem, however, remained to be tackled and during the debate in Parliament on the Constitution (First Amendment) Bill, 1951, the Prime Minister said that he was prepared to appoint a committee or a commission, including representatives of the Press, to examine the state of the Press and its content. He elaborated the idea further on June 1, 1951, when he indicated that an enquiry covering the larger issue of the Press, such as had been carried out in the United Kingdom by the Royal Commission, might be productive of good for the Press and the development of this very important aspect of public affairs. The idea was further discussed during the debate in Parliament on the Press (Incitement to Crimes) Bill, later named the Press (Objectionable Matter) Act, 1952. At its session held in April, 1952, at Calcutta, the Indian Federation of Working Journalists adopted a resolution for the appointment of a Commission to enquire into the condi- tions of the Press in India with a view to improving its place, status and functioning in the new democratic set up. The appointment of the Press Commission was thereafter announced in a Communique issued by the Govt. of India, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, on September 23, 1952, under the Chairmanship of Shri Justice G. S. Rajadhyaksha.
The terms of reference inter alia were:-
readers as a class could not be regarded as working journalists, for there were proof-readers even in presses doing job work. It came to the conclusion that if a person had been employed as a proof-reader only for the purpose of making him a more efficient sub-editor, then it was obvious that even while he was a proof-reader, he should be regarded as a working journalist but in all other instances, he would not be counted as a journalist but as a member of the press staff coming within the purview of the Factories Act. The question of the emoluments payable to working journalists, was discussed by it in paragraphs 538 and 539 of its report:
It considered therefore that there should be a certain minimum wage paid to a journalist. The possible impact of such a minimum wage was also considered by it and it was considered not unlikely that the fixation of such a minimum wage may make it impossible for small papers to continue to exist as such but it thought that if a newspaper could not afford to pay the minimum wage to the employee which would enable him to live decently and with dignity, that newspaper had no business to exist. It recommended division of localities for taking into account the differential cost of living in different parts of India, and determining what should be the reasonable minimum wage in respect of each area. It endorsed the concept of a minimum wage which has been adopted. by the Bank Award:-
sidered the questions as to the tenure of appointment and the minimum period of notice for termination of the employment of the working journalists, hours of work, provision for leave, retirement benefits and gratuity, made certain recommendations and suggested legislation for the regulation of the newspaper industry which should embody its recommendations with regard to (i) notice period; (ii) bonus; (iii) minimum wages; (iv) Sunday rest; (v) leave, and
(vi) provident fund and gratuity.
Almost immediately after the Report of the Press Commission, Parliament passed the Working Journalists (Industrial ]Disputes) Act, 1955 (I of 1955) which received the assent of the President on March 12, 1955. It was an Act to apply the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to working journalists.
The application of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the working journalists was not, however, deemed sufficient to meet the requirements of the situation. There was considerable agitation in Parliament for the implementation of the recommendations of the Press Commission, and on November 30, 1955, the Union Government introduced a Bill in the Rajya, Sabha, being Bill No. 13 of 1955. It was a Bill to regulate conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments. The recommendations of the Press Commission in regard to minimum period of notice, bonus, Sunday rest, leave, and provident fund and gratuity, etc., were all incorporated in the Bill; the fixation of the minimum rates of Wages however was left to a minimum wage Board to be constituted for the purpose by the Central Government. The provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1946) and the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) were also sought to be applied in respect of establishments exceeding certain minimum size as recommended by the Commission. It appears that during the course of discussion in the Rajya Sabha, the word " minimum " was dropped from the Bill wherever it occurred, the Minister for Labour having been responsible for the suggested amendment. The reason for dropping the same was stated by him as under:
The Act as finally passed was entituled " The Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955) and received the assent of the President on December 20, 1955.
The relevant provisions of the Act may now be referred to. It was an Act to regulate certain conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments. Newspaper establishment " was defined in s. 2 (d) to mean " an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not, for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate ". The definition of " working journalist " was almost in the same terms as that in the Working Journalists (Industrial Disputes) Act, 1955, and included a proof reader. All words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, were under s. 2 (g) to have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act. Section 3 applied the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as it was in force for the time being, to working journalists as they applied to, or in relation to workmen within the meaning of that Act subject to the modification that s. 25 (F) of that Act in its application to working journalists in regard to the period of notice in relation to the retrenchment of a workman was to be construed as substituting six months in the case of the retrenchment of an editor and three months, in the case of any other working journalist. The period which lapsed between the publication of the report and the enactment of the Working Journalists (Industrial Disputes) Act, 1955, viz., from July 14, 1954, to March 12, 1955, was sought to be bridged over by s. 4 enacting special provisions in respect of certain cases of retrenchment during that period. Section 5 provided for the payment of gratuity, inter alia, to a working journalist who had been in continuous service, whether before or after the commencement of the Act, for not less than three years in any newspaper establishment even when he voluntarily resigned from service of that newspaper establishment. Section 6 laid down that no working journalist shall be required or allowed to work in any newspaper establishment for more than one hundred and forty-four hours during any period of four consecutive weeks, exclusive of the time for meals. Every working journalist was under s. 7 entitled to earned leave and leave on medical certificate on the terms therein specified without prejudice to such holidays, casual leave or other kinds of leave as might be prescribed. After thus providing for retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, hours of work, and leave, ss. 8 to 1 1 of the Act provided for fixation of the rates of wages in respect of working journalists. Section 8 authorised the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette to constitute a Wage Board for fixing rates of wages in respect of the working journalists in accordance with the provisions of the Act, which Board was to consist of an equal number of persons nominated by the Central Government to represent employers in relation to the newspaper establishments- and working journa lists, and an independent person appointed by the Central Government as the Chairman thereof. Section 9 laid down the circumstances which the Wage Board was to have regard to in fixing rates of wages and these circumstances were the cost of living, the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments, the circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country and to any other circumstance which to the Board may seem relevant. The decision of the Board fixing rates of wages was to be communicated as soon as practicable to the Central Government and this decision was under s. 10 to be published by the Central Government in such manner as it thought fit within a period of one month from the date of its receipt by the Central Government and the decision so published was to come into operation with effect from such date as may be specified, and where no date was so specified on the date of its publication. Section 11 prescribed the powers and procedure of the Board and stated that subject to any rules of procedure which might be prescribed the Board may, for the purpose of fixing rates of wages, exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, exercised or followed for the purpose of adjudicating an industrial dispute referred to it. The decision of the Board under s. 12 was declared to be binding on all employers in relation to newspaper establishments and every working journalist was entitled to be paid wages at a rate which was to be in no case less than the rate of wages fixed by the Board. Sections 14 and 15 applied the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, as it was in force for the time being and also the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952, as it was in force for the time being, to every newspaper establishment in which twenty or more persons were employed. Section 17 provided for the recovery of money due from an employer and enacted that where any money was due to a newspaper employee from an employer under any of the provisions of the Act, whether by way of compensation, gratuity or wages, the newspaper employee might, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, make an application to the State Government for the recovery of the money due to him, and if the State Government or such authority as the State Government might specify in this behalf was satisfied that any money was so due, it shall issue a certificate for that amount to the collector and the collector shall proceed to recover that amount in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue. Section 20 empowered the Central Government by. notification in the Official Gazette to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules were to provide inter alia for the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of wages. All rules made under this section, as soon as practicable after they were made were to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. The Working Journalists (Industrial Disputes) Act, 1955, was repealed by s. 21 of the Act.
In pursuance of the power given under s. 20 of the Act the Central Government published by a notification in the Gazette of India-Part II-Section 3, dated July 30,1956, The Working Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956 Rule 8 provided that every question considered at a meeting of the Board was to be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting. In the event of equality of votes the Chairman was to have a casting vote. Rule 13 provided for the resignation of the Chairman or any member from his office or membership, as the case may be. The seat held by them was to be deemed to have fallen vacant with effect from the date the resignation of the Chairman or the member was accepted by the Central Government. When a vacancy thus arose in the office of the Chairman or in the membership of the Board, the Central Government was to take immediate steps to fill the vacancy in accordance with the Act and the proceedings might' be continued before the Board so reconstituted from the stage at which the vacancy was so filled. By a notification dated May 2, 1956, the Central Government constituted a Wage Board under s. 8 of the Act for fixing rates of wages in respect of working journalists in accordance with the provisions of the Act, consisting of equal representatives of employers in relation to newspaper establishments and working journalists and appointed Shri H. V. Divatia, Retired Judge of the High Court of Judicature, Bombay, as the Chairman of the Board. The three members of the Board who were nominated to represent employers in relation to newspaper establishments were (1) Shri G. Narasimhan, Manager, The Hindu, Madras and President, Indian and Eastern Newspaper Society; (2) Shri A. R. Bhat, M.L.C., who had been a member of the Press Commission and was the President of the Indian Language Newspapers Association, as also the Chairman of the Minimum Wages Inquiry Committee for the Printing Industry in Bombay and, (3) Shri -K. P. Kesava Menon, Editor, Mathrubhumi, Calicut. The other three members of the Board who were nominated to represent working journalists were: (1) Shri G. Venkataraman, M. P., (2) Shri C. Raghavan, Secretary-General, Indian Federation of Working Journalists, and (3) Shri G. N. Acharya, Assistant Editor, Bombay Chronicle.
Shri H. V. Divatia, the Chairman of the Board, had wide and considerable experience as Chairman of the Textile Labour Enquiry Committee, Bombay, had been the President of the First Industrial Court to be set up in India in 1938, and had worked as an Industrial Tribunal dealing with several disputes as between several banks and employees, as well as between several insurance companies and their employees.
The first meeting of the Board was held on May 26, 1956, in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan at Bombay. Sri Kesava Menon and Shri G. Narasimhan were not present at this meeting. It was a preliminary meeting at which the Board set up a sub- committee consisting Of Shri A. R. Bhat and Shri G. N. Acharya to draft a questionnaire for issue to the various journals and organisations concerned, with a view to eliciting factual data and other relevant information required for the fixation of wages for the working journalists. The sub-committee was requested to hear in mind, while framing the questionnaire the need for: (1) obtaining detailed accounts of newspaper establishments; (2) proper evaluation of the nature of and the work of various categories of working journalists; and (3) proper classification of the country into different areas on the basis of certain criteria like population, cost of living, etc. The questionnaire drafted by the sub-committee was to be finalised by the chairman and circulated to all concerned by the end of June, 1956.
The questionnaire was accordingly drawn up and was sent to Universities and Governments, etc., and several other organisations and individuals interested in the inquiry of the Board, and to all newspapers individually. It was divided into three parts. Part " A" was intended to be answered by newspapers, news agencies, organisations of employers and of workinly Journalists and any individuals who might wish to do so. Part " B " was meant to be answered by all newspapers and Part " C " by all news agencies.
At the outset the Board pointed out that except where the question itself indicated a different period or point of time, the reporting period for purposes of parts " B " and "
and (g) Location.
In part B " which was to be answered by newspapers were included under the heading Accounts :-
All information which was considered necessary by the Wage Board for the purposes of fixation of the rates of wages was thus sought to be elicited by the questionnaire. It appears that Shri K. P. Kesava Mellon sent in his resignation on or about June 21, 1956, and by a notification dated July 14, 1956, the Central Government accepted the said resignation and appointed in his place Shri K. M. Cherian, member of the executive committee of the Indian and Eastern Newspapers Association, one of the directors of the Press Trust of India and the Chief Editor, Malayala Manorama, Kottayam, as a member of the Board. Out of 5,465 newspapers, journals, etc., to whom the questionnaire was sent only 381 answered the same; and out of 502 dailies only 138 answered it. The Board had an analysis made of those who had replied to the questionnaire and also of their replies thereto in regard to each of the questions contained in the questionnaire. It also got statements prepared according to the gross revenue of the newspapers, the population of the centres, circulation of the papers, the cost of living index, scales of dearness allowance in certain States, figures of comparable employments, pay scales of important categories of journalists, etc., the total income, break up of expenditure in relation to total income and total expenses, total income in relation to net profits, and net losses and net profits in relation to circulation of the several newspapers which had sent in the replies to the questionnaire,. Further meetings of the Board were held oil August 17, and August 26, 1956, in Bombay. Tile Chairman informed the members that response from journals, organisations, etc., to whom 'questionnaire was sent was unsatisfactory and it was decided to issue a Press Note requesting the papers and journals to send their replies, particularly to Part " B "
3 hours for regional units and 2 hours for smaller units for oral evidence. The Board also discussed the question as to the number of persons who might ordinarily be called for oral evidence from each newspaper or Organisation. It thought that one of the important factors Governing the findings of the Board would be the circulation of each newspaper, and as such it was decided that the figures with the Audit Bureau of Circulation Ltd., might be obtained at once. The Board also decided to ask witnesses, if necessary, to produce books of accounts, income-tax assessment orders or any other document which in its opinion was essential.
Meetings of the Board were held at Trivandrum from September 7, to September 10, 1956, in Madras from September 15, to September 20, 1956, in New Delhi from October 19, to October 26, 1956, in Calcutta from November 25, to December 4,1956, and in Bombay from January 4, to January 10, 1957, from January 20, to February 6, 1957, from March 25 to March 31, 1957 and finally from April 22 to April 24, 1957. Evidence of several journalists and persons connected with the newspaper industry was recorded at the respective places and at its meeting in Bombay from March 25, to March 31, 1957, the Board entered upon its final deliberations. At this meeting the chairman impressed upon the members the desirability of arriving at unanimous decisions with regard to the fixation of wages, etc. He further stated that he would be extremely happy if representatives- of newspaper industry and of working journalists could come to mutual agreement by direct discussions and he assured his utmost co-operation and help in arriving at decisions on points on which they could not agree. Members welcomed this suggestion and decided to discuss various issues among themselves in the afternoon and on the following days.
After considerable discussion on March 25, 1957, and March 26, 1957, in which the representatives of the newspapers and of working journalists had joint Sittings, unanimous decisions were arrived at on (i) classification of newspapers, (ii) classification of centres and (iii) classification of employees, except on one point, namely, classification of group, multiple units and chains on the basis of their total gross revenue. This was agreed to by a majority decision. The chairman and the representatives of the working journalists voted in favour while the representatives of the employers voted against. Regarding scales of pay, the chairman suggested at the meeting of March 27, 1957, that pending final settlement of the issue the parties should submit figures of scales based on both assumptions, namely, consolidated wages and basic scales with separate dearness allowance. Both sides agreed to submit concrete suggestions on the following day. At the Board's meeting on March 28, 1957, the representatives of the employers stated that the term CC rates of pay " did not include scales of pay ; there fore, the Board was not competent to fix scales of working journalists and they submitted a written statement signed by all of them to the chairman in support of their contention. The representatives of the working journalists argued that the Board was competent to fix scales of pay. The chairman adjourned the sitting of the Board to study this issue. A copy of the written statement submitted by the representatives of the employers was given to the representatives of the working journalists and they submitted a written reply the same afternoon contending that the Board was competent to fix scales of pay of various categories of working journalists.' At its meeting on March 29, 1957, the Board discussed its own competency to fix scales of pay. The chairman expressed his opinion in writing, whereby he held that the Board was competent to fix scales of pay. On a vote being taken according to r. 8 of the Working Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956, the chairman and the representatives of the working journalists voted in favour of the competence of the Board to fix scales of pay, while the representatives of the employers voted against it. Thereafter, several suggestions were made on this question, but since there was no possibility of any agreement on this issue, the chairman suggested that members should submit their specific scales to him for his study to which the mem- bers agreed. It was also decided that the chairman would have separate discussions with representatives of working journalists in the morning and with representatives of employers in the afternoon of March 30, 1957. It was also decided that the Board should meet again on March 31, 1957, for further discussions. No final decision was however arrived at in the meeting of the Board held on March 31, 1957, on scales of pay, allowances, date of operation of the decision, etc. It was decided that the Board should meet again on April 22, 1957, to take final decisions. A meeting of the Board was accordingly held from April 22 to 24, 1957, in the office of the Wage Board at Bombay. It was unanimously agreed that the word "decision" should be used wherever the word " report" occurred. The question of the nature of the decisions which should be submitted to the Government was then considered. It was agreed that reasons need not be given for each of the decisions, and that it would be sufficient only to record the decisions. The members then requested the chairman to study the proposals regarding scales of pay, etc., submitted by, both the parties and to give his own proposals so that they may take a final decision. Accordingly, the chairman circulated to all the members his proposals regarding pay scales, dearness allowance, location allowance and retainer allowance. The following were the decisions arrived at by the Board on the various points under consideration and they were unanimous except where otherwise stated. The same may be set out here so far as they are relevant for the purposes of the inquiry before US.
1. For the purpose of fixation of wages of working journalists, newspaper, establishments should be grouped under different classes.
2. Except in the case of weeklies and other periodicals expressly provided for hereinafter, newspaper establishments should be classified on the basis of their gross revenue.
3. For purposes of classification, revenue from all sources of a newspaper establishment, should be taken for ascertaining gross revenue.
4. Classification of Newspaper Establishments:
5. Classification of newspaper establishments should be based on the average gross revenue of the three-year period, 1952, 1953 and 1954.
6. It shall be open to the parties to seek re-classifi- cation of the newspaper establishments on the basis of the average of every three years commencing from the year 1955.
11. Groups, multiple units and chains should be classified on the basis of the total gross revenue of all the constituent units. (This was a majority decision, the chairman and the representatives of the working journalists voting for and the representatives of the employers voting against).
12. A newspaper establishment will be classified as:-
20. Working journalists employed in newspaper establishments should be grouped as follows:
These suggestions, however, were not acceptable to the majority.
Wages, scales and grades: (as agreed to by the majority) were as under: Working journalists of different groups employed in different classes of newspaper establishments should be paid the following basic wages per mensem.
1. Dailies.
Dearness allowance, location allowance and part time employees remuneration were also majority decisions.The chairman and the representatives of the working journalists voting for and the representatives of the employers voting against.
28. Other allowances:-In view of the paucity of evidence on the subject, the Board decided that the fixation of conveyance and other allowances should be left to collective bargaining between the working journalists and the newspaper establishments concerned.
29. Fitment of employees:-For fitment of the present employees into the new scales, service in a particular grade and category and in the particular newspaper establishment alone should be taken into account.
30. In no case should the present emoluments of the employees be reduced as a; result of the operation of this decision.
35. When a newspaper establishment is re-classified as per para. 6 supra, the existing pay of the staff should be protected. But future increments and scales should be those applicable to the class of paper into which it falls.
38. Date of operation:-The Board's decision should be operative from the date of constitution of the Board (i.e., 2-5-1956) in respect of newspaper eseablishments coming under Class " A ", " B " and " C " and from a date six months from the date of appointment of the Board (i.e., 1-11-1956) in the case of newspaper establishments under Class " D " & " E" (This was also a majority decision. The chairman and the representatives of the working journalists voted for and the representatives of the employers voted against).
41. The Government of India should constitute a Wage Board under the Act, to review the effect of the decisions of the Board on the newspaper establishments and the working journalists, after the expiry of 3 years but not later than 5 years from the date of the publication of the decisions of the Board.
These decisions were recorded on April 30, 1957, but the representatives of the employers thought fit to append a minute of dissent and the chairman also put on record a note on the same day explaining the reasons for the decisions thus recorded. These documents are of vital importance in the determination of the issues before us.
In the minute of dissent recorded by the representatives of the employers they started with an expression of regret that the conditions in the newspaper industry did not Permit them to accept the majority view. They expressed their opinion that the fixation of rates of wages should be governed by the following criteria:
Editorial employees were one section of a newspaper establishment and any increase in their emoluments would have its inevitable repercussions on the wages of other sections. The salaries of working Journalists would roughly be one-fifth of the total wage bill. The factory staff had a great bargaining power and as such any increase in the salaries and introduction of scales in the editorial department would have to be followed by an increase in the wages and introduction of time scales in the factory side.
(e) It was the advertisement revenue that principally decided the capacity to pay of a newspaper industry. It was not enough to take into consideration the gross revenue of a newspaper alone but also the proportion of advertisement revenue in it. This meant that minimum salaries and scales to be fixed on an All-India basis would perforce have to be low if the newpapers in language of regions with a low purchasing power such as Kerala and Orissa were not to be handicapped. It would therefore be fair both to the industry and employees if wages were fixed regionwise.
(f) The proposals, which the majority had made, clearly showed that, according to it the dominating principle of wage fixation wag the need of the worker as conceived by them, irrespective of its effect on the industry. The Board had not before it sufficient data needed for the proper assessment of the paying capacity of the industry. The profit and loss statements of the daily newspaper establishments for the year 19.54-55 as submitted to the Board revealed that while 43 of them had shown profits 40 had incurred losses. The. condition of the newspaper industry in the country as a whole could not be considered satisfactory. The proposals embodied in the decision made by the majority were therefore unduly high. They would immediately throw a huge burden on many papers, a burden which would progressively grow for some years, and would be still bigger when its impact takes place on the wages of employees of its other sections. All this will in its turn add to the burden of provident fund, gratuity, etc., when the full impact of the burden took place and the wages of the entire newspaper establishments went up, it would throw out of gear the economy of most of the newspapers. It might be that there may not be many closures immediately, because many of the newspapers would not be in a position to meet the liability of retrenchment compensation, gratuity, etc., resulting from such a step, newspapers would try to meet the liability by borrowing to the extent possible and when their credit was exhausted, they must close down. So far as new newspaper promotions were concerned, they would be few and far between, with the result that after a few years it would be found that the number of daily newspapers in the country had not increased but had gone down. Such an eventuality was not in the interests of the country both from the point of view of employment as well as of freedom of expression.
(g)As regards chains and groups the criterion for classification adopted by the majority was unfair and unnatural. The total gross revenue of all the units in a chain or a group gave an unreal picture of its capacity to pay.
(h)Giving of retrospective effect, would help only to aggravate the troubles of the newspaper industry which had been already called upon to devise ways and means of meeting the burden of retrospective gratuity.
(i) As regards the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments the nature of work of the working journalists in newspaper establishments could not be compared with other avocations or professions and the rates of wages of working journalists should be fixed only in the context of the financial condition of the newspaper industry. Comparison, could, however, be made within limits, namely with respect to alternative employments available to persons with similar educational qualifications in particular regions or localities. From that point of view the salaries paid to secondary school teachers, college and university teachers and employees in commercial firms and banks should be taken into consideration, but the majority had rejected this view.
The note of the chairman was meant to explain the reasons of the decisions which he stated he at least had in view and some of which were accepted unanimously and others were accepted by some members and thereby became majority decisions. At the outset the chairman explained that most of the recommendations of the Press Commission were intended for the betterment of the economic condition of small and medium newspapers, such as price page schedule, telescopic rates for Government advertisements and their fair distribution among newspapers, statutory restrictions on malpractices so as to eliminate cutthroat competition and fixation of news agency tariff,-, which still remained to be implemented and there had been no stability in the prices of newsprint which constituted a considerable proportion of the expenditure of a newspaper. These circumstances had necessitated the fixing of a minimum wage lower than that recommended by the Press Commission.
As regards fixation of the rates of wages, the chairman observed:
The chairman then proceeded to observe:
The reason for grouping all the constituent units of the same group or chain in the same class in which they would fall on the basis of the total gross income of the entire establishment was given by the chairman as under:-
The chairman suggested as a palliative the creation by the Government of India immediately of a standsing administrative machinery "which could also combine in itself the functions of implementing and administering our decisions and that of preparing the ground for the review and revision envisaged after 3 to 5 years. This machinery should collect from all newspaper establishments in the country on systematic basis detailed information and data such as those on employment, wage rates, and earnings, financial condition of papers, figures of circulation, etc., which may be required for the assessment of the effects of our decisions at the time of the review."
The above decision of the Wage Board was published by the Central Government in the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated May 11, 1957. The Commissioner of Labour, Madras, issued a circular on May 30, 1957, calling upon the managements of all newspaper establishments in the State to send to him the report of the gross revenue for the three years, i. e., 1952, 1953 and 1954, within a period of one month from the date of the publication of the Board's decision, i. e., not later than June 10, 1957. Writ Petition No. 91 of 1957 was thereupon filed on June 13, 1957, by the Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., against the Union of India & others and this petition was followed up by similar petitions filed on August 9, 1957, by the Press Trust of India Ltd., the Indian National Press (Bombay) Private Ltd., and the Saurashtra Trust, being Petitions Nos. 99, 100, and 101 of 1957 respectively. The Hindustan Times Ltd., New Delhi filed on August 23, 1957, a similar petition, being Petition No. 103 of 1957, and three more petitions, being Petitions Nos. 116, 117 and 118 of 1957, were filed by the Loksatta Karyalaya, Baroda, Sandesh Ltd.' Ahmedabad and Jan Satta Karyalaya, Ahmedabad, respectively, on September 18, 1957.
The Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No. 91 of 1957, otherwise termed the " Express Group ", are the biggest chain in the newspaper world in India. They publish (i) Indian Express, an English Daily, from Madras, Bombay, Delhi and Madurai,
(ii) Sunday Standard, an English Weekly, from three centres- Madras, Bombay and Delhi, (iii) Dinmani, a Tamil Daily from Madras and Madurai, (iv) Dinmani Kadir, a Tamil Weekly from Madras, (v) Lokasatta, a Maratha Daily, and Sunday Lokasatta, a Maratha Weekly, from Bombay, (vi) Screen, an English Weekly from Bombay and (vii) Andhra Prabha, a Telugu Daily and Weekly. The total number of working journalists employed by them are 331, out of whom there are 123 proof readers, as against 1570 who form the other members of the staff. The present emoluments of the working journalists in their employ amount to Rs. 9,77,892, whereas if the decision of the Wage Board were given effect to they would go up to Rs. 15,21,282-12 thus increasing the wage bill of the working journalists annually by Rs. 5,43,390-12. They would also have to pay remuneration to the part-time correspondents on the basis of retainer as well as payment for news items on column basis. That would involve an additional burden of about Rs. 1 lakh a year. The retrospective operation of the Wage Board's decision with effect from May 2, 1956, in their case would further involve a payment of Rs. 5,16,337-20. This would be the extra burden not taking account the liability for past gratuity and the recurring gratuity as awarded under the provisions of the Act and also the increased burden which would have to be borne by reason of the impact of the provisions in regard to reduced hours of working, increase in leave, etc., provided therein. If, moreover, the members of the staff who are not included in the definition of working journalists made similar demands for increasing their emoluments and bettering their conditions of service then there would be an additional burden which is estimated at Rs. 9,92,443-68.
The Press Trust of India Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No. 99 of 1957, are a non-profit making cooperative organization of newspaper proprietors. They employ 820 employees in all, out of whom 170 are working journalists and 650 do not come within that definition. Their total wage bill is Rs. 21,00,000 per year (approximately) out of which the annual salary of the working journalists is Rs. 9,00,000. The ,increase in their wage bill due to increase in the salary of the working journalists as per the decision of the. Wage Board would come to Rs. 4,05,600 and they would have to pay by way of arrears by reason of the retrospective operation of the decision another sum of Rs. 4,05,600 to the working journalists. There would also be an additional financial burden of Rs. 60,000 every year by reason of the recurring increments in the monthly salaries of the working journalists employed by them. If the benefits of the Wage Board decision were extended to the other members of the staff who are not working journalists within the definition of that term but who have also made similar demands on them, a further annual burden would be imposed on the petitioners which is estimated at Rs. 3,90,000. If perchance the petitioners not being able to run their concern except at a loss intended to close down the same, the amount which they would have to pay to the working journalists under the pro- visions of the Act and the decision of the Wage Board would be Rs. 23,68,500 as against the old scale liability of Rs. 11,62,500 and the other members of the staff who do not fall within the category of working journalists would have to be paid a further sum of Rs. 15,50,000. The total liability of the petitioners in such an event would amount to Rs. 39,18,000 as against the old liability of Rs. 27,12,500. The Indian National Press (Bombay) Private Ltd., otherwise known as the Free Press Group, are petitioners in Petition No. 100 of 1957. They publish (i) Free Press Journal, a morning English Daily (ii) Free Press Bulletin, an evening English Daily (iii) Bharat Jyoti, an English Weekly (iv) Janashakti, a morning Gujarati Daily and (v) Navashakthi, a Marathi Dailyall from Bombay. They employ 442 employees including part-time correspondents out of whom 65 are working journalists and 21 are proof readers and the rest form members of the other staff not falling within the category of working journalists. The effect of the decision of the Wage Board would be that there would have to be an immediate payment of Rs. 1,73,811 by reason of the retrospective operation of the decision and there will also be an annual 'increase in the wage bill to the same extent, i. e., Rs. 1,73,811. There will also be a yearly recurring increase to the extent of Rs. 22,470 and also corresponding increase for contribution to the provident fund on account of increase in salary. Under the provisions of the Act in regard to reduced hours of work, and increase in leave, moreover, there will be an increase in liability to pay Rs. 90,669 and Rs. 29,806 respectively, in the case of working journalists, besides the liability for past gratuity in another sum of Rs. 1,08,534 and recurring annual liability for gratuity in a sum of Rs. 17,995. If similar benefits would have to be given to the other members of the staff who do not fall within the definition of working journalists the annual burden would be increased by a sum of Rs. 1,80,000. This would be the position by reason of the petitioners being classified and treated as a chain of newspapers and having been classified as " A " class newspaper establishment on a total computation of the gross revenue of all their units. If they were not so treated and the component units were classified on their individual gross revenue the result would be that the Free Press Journal, the Free Press Bulletin and the Bharat Jyoti would fall within class " A ", and Navashakti would fall within class " C "
The petitioners in Petition No. 116 of 1957 are the Loksatta Karyalaya, Baroda, which publish the Loksatta, a Gujarati Daily from Baroda. They employ 15 working journalists. The annual wage bill of working journalists would have to be increased by reason of the decision of the Wage Board by Rs. 10,800; the burden of payment of retrospective liability being Rs. 9,600. Moreover, there will be a recurring annual burden of Rs. 6,340 inclusive of the expenditure involved by reason of the provisions as to (i) Notice pay, (ii) Gratuity, (iii) Retrenchment compensation and (iv) Extra burden of reduced hours of work and increased leave. The Sandesh Ltd., the petitioners in Petition No. 117 of 1957, otherwise styled, the Sandesh Group, Ahmeda bad, publish (i) Sandesh, a morning Gujarati Daily, (ii) Sevak, an evening Gujarati Daily, (iii) Bal Sandesh, a Gujarati Weekly, and (iv) Aram, and (v) Sat Sandesh, Gujarati Monthlies-all from Ahmedabad. They employ a total staff of 205 employees out of whom there are 11 working journalists, 7 proof readers and the rest 187 constitute the other members of the staff. The increase in the wage bill of the working journalists under the provisions of the Act would be Rs. 24,807 per year besides a similar liability for Rs. 24,807 by reason of the retrospective operation of the decision. There will be an increase in expenditure to the tune of Rs. 30,900 by reason of the reduced working hours and increase in leave and holidays, a liability of Rs. 31, 597 for past gratuity and Rs. 24,807 every year for recurring gratuity as also Rs. 1,530 for recurring increase in wages of the working journalists. The financial burden in the case of proof-readers who are included in the definition of working journalists tinder the terms of the Act would be Rs. 5,724 per year. If similar benefits were to be given to the other members of the staff who are not working journalists the annual increase in the burden will be Rs. 1,89,816. The total costs of closing down if such an eventuality' were contemplated would be Rs. 1,08,997 for the working journalists only as against a liability of Rs. 22,755 on the old basis. The other members of the staff would have to be paid Rs. 1,46,351 and the total cost of closing down the whole concern would thus conic to Rs. 2,55,349 under the new dispensation as against Rs. 1,69,106 as of old. The Jansatta Karyalaya, Ahmedabad, petitioners in Petition No. 118 of 1957 bring out (i) Jansatta, a Gujarati Daily and
(ii) Chandni a Gujarati Monthly from Ahmedabad. They employ 15 working journalists, 6 proof-readers and 87 other members of the staff thus making a total number of 108 employees. The increase in the wage-bill of the working journalists would come to Rs. 29,808. The liability for past gratuity would be Rs. 6,624 and the recurring annual gratuity would be Rs. 2,303 and the annual recurring increase in wages would come to Rs. 2,280. The financial burden in case of proof-readers would be Rs. 6,480 per year as per the decision of the Wage Board. If similar benefits had to be given to the other members of the staff who are non-working journalists the annual burden will increase by Rs. 48,720. The total cost of closing down, if such a contingency ever arose, would come to Rs. 1,00,798 under the provisions of the Act and the Wage Board decision as against Rs. 45,206 on the old basis.
All these petitions filed by the several petitioners as above followed a common pattern. After succinctly reciting the history of the events narrated above which led to the enactment of the impugned Act and the decision of the Wage Board, they challenged the vires of the Act and the decision of the Wage Board. The vires of the Act was challenged on the ground that the provisions thereof were violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution under Art. 19(1)(a), Art. 19(1)(g), and Art. 14 ; but in the course of the argu- ments before us another Article, viz., Art. 32 was also added as having been infringed by the Act. The decision of the Wage Board was challenged on various grounds which were in pari materia with the objections that had been urged by the representatives of the employers in the Wage Board in their minute of dissent above referred to. It was also contended that the implementation of the decision would be beyond the capacity of the petitioners and would result in their titter collapse. The reply made by the respondents was that none of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a), Art. 19(1)(g), Art. 14 and/or Art. 32 were infringed by the impugned Act, that the functions of the Wage Board were not judicial or quasijudicial in character, that the fixation of the rates of wages was a legislative act and not a judicial one, that the decision of the Wage Board bad been arrived at after taking into consideration all the criteria for fixation of wages under s. 9(1) of the Act and the material as well as the evidence led before it, that a considerable portion of the decisions recorded by the Wage Board were unanimous, that the Wage Board had the power and authority also to fix the scales of wages and to give retrospective operation to its decision, and that the financial position of the petitioners was not such as to lead to their collapse as a result of the impact of the provisions of the impugned Act and the decision of the Wage Board.
The petitioners in Petitions Nos. 91 of' 1957, 99 of 1957, 100 of 1957, 101 of 1957 and 103 of 1957 also filed petitions for special leave to appeal against the decision of the Wage Board being Petitions Nos. 323, 346, 347, 348 and 359 of 1957 respectively and this Court granted the special leave in all these petitions under Art. 136 of the Constitution subject to the question of the maintainability of the appeals being open to be urged at the hearing. Civil Appeals arising out of these special leave petitions were ordered to be placed along with the Writ Petitions aforesaid for hearing and final disposal and Civil Appeals Nos. 699 of 1957, 700 of 1957, 701 of 1957, 702 of 1957 and 703 of 1957 arising therefrom thus came up for hearing and final disposal before us along with the Writ Petitions under Art. 32 mentioned above. We took up the hearing of the Writ Petitions first as they were more comprehensive in scope than the Civil Appeals filed by the respective parties and heard counsel at considerable length on the questions arising for our determination therein.
Before we discuss the vires of the impugned Act and the decision of the Wage Board, it will be appropriate at this juncture to clear the ground by considering the principles of wage fixation and the machinery employed for the purpose in various countries. Broadly speaking wages have been classified into three categories, viz., (1) the living wage, (2) the fair wage and (3) the minimum wage.
The concept of the living wage:
The Royal Commission on the Basic Wage for the Commonwealth of Australia approved of this course and proceeded through norms and budget enquiries to ascertain what the minimum of health and comfort level should be. The commission quoted with approval the description of the minimum of health and comfort level in the following terms:
Writing practically in the same language, the United Provinces Labour Enquiry Committee classified level of living standard in four categories, viz.,
(i) the poverty level,81
(ii) the minimum subsistence level,
(iii)the subsistence plus level and
(iv) the comfort level, and chose the subsistence plus. level as the basis of what it called the "minimum living wage". The Bombay Textile Labour Inquiry Committee, 1937, considered the living wage standard at considerable length and, while accepting the concept of the living wage as described above, observed as follows:
The Committee then proceeded through the use of norms and standard budgets to lay down what the basic wage should be, so that it might approximate to the living, wage standard "
The Minimum Wage-Fixing Machinery published by the 1. L. O. has summarised these views as follows:
It will be seen from this summary of the concepts of the living wage held in various parts of the world that there is general argument that the living wage should enable the male earlier to provide for himself and his family not merely the bare essentials of food, clothing and shelter but a measure of frugal comfort including education for the children, protection against ill-health, requirements of essential social needs, and a measure of insurance against the more important misfortunes including old age. " (1) Article 43 of our Constitution has also adopted as one of the Directive Principles of State Policy that:
Provincial Governments consider that the minimum wage can at present be only a bare subsistence wage. In fact, even one important All-India Organisation of employees has suggested that " a minimum wage is that wage which is sufficient to cover the bare physical needs of a worker and his family." Many others,'; however.......... consider that a minimum wage should also provide for some other essential requirements such as a minimum of education, medical facilities and other amenities. We consider that a minimum wage must provide not merely for the bare sustenance of life but for the preservation of the efficiency of the worker. For this purpose, the minimum wage must also provide for some measure of education, medical requirements, and amenities.
This is the concept of the " minimum wage " adopted by the Committee on Fair Wages. There are however variations of that concept and a distinction has been drawn, for instance, in Australian industrial terminology between the basic wage and the minimum wage.-
pay. If an industry is unable to pay to its workmen at least a bare minimum wage it has no right to exist. As was observed by us in Messrs. Crown Aluminium Works v. Their Workmen (1):
The statutory minimum wage however is the minimum which is prescribed by the statute and it may be higher than the bare subsistence or minimum wage, providing for some measure of education, medical requirements and amenities, as contemplated above. (Cf. also the connotation of " minimum rate of wages " in s. 4 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (XI of 1948)).
The concept of the fair wage:
agreements, arbitrators, and adjudicators could at best be treated, like the minimum wage, as the starting point and that wherever the capacity of an industry to pay a higher wage is established, such a higher wage should be deemed to be the fair wage. The minimum a wage should have no regard to the capacity of an industry to pay and should be based solely on the requirements of the worker and his family. "
While the lower limit of the fair wage must obviously be the minimum wage, the upper limit is equally set by what may broadly be called the capacity of industry to pay. This will depend not only on the present economic position of the industry but on its future prospects. Between these two limits the actual ",-ages will depend on a consideration of the following factors and in the light of the comments given below:
It will be noticed that the " fair wage " is thus a mean between the living wage and the minimum wage and even the minimum wage contemplated above is something more than the bare minimum or subsistence wage which would be sufficient to cover the bare physical needs of the worker and his family, a wage which would provide also for the preservation of the efficiency of the worker and for some measure of education, medical requirements and amenities. This concept of minimum wage is in harmony with the advance of thought in all civilised countries and approximates to the statutory minimum wage which the State should strive to achieve having regard to the Directive Principle of State Policy mentioned above.
The enactment of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, affords an illustration of an attempt to provide a statutory minimum. wage. It was an Act to provide for fixing minimum rates of wages in certain employments and the appropriate Government was thereby empowered to fix different minimum rates of wages for (i) different scheduled employments; (ii) different classes of work in the same scheduled employment;
(iii) adult-,, adolescents, children and apprentices; and
(iv) different localities; and (v) such minimum rates of wages could be fixed by the hour, by the day or by any larger period as may be prescribed It will also be noticed that the content of the expressions minimum wage fair wage " and " living wage is not fixed and static. It varies and is bound to vary from time to time. With the growth and Development of national economy, living standards Would improve and so would our notions about the respective categories of wages expand and be more progressive.
(1) Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, PP. 4, 9-11, paras, 11-15.
It must however be remembered that whereas the bare minimum or subsistence wage would have to be fixed irrespective of the capacity of the industry to pay, the minimum wagg thus contemplated postulates the capacity of the industry to pay and no fixation of wages which ignores this essential factor of the capacity of the industry to pav could ever be supported.
Fixation of Scales of Wages:-
Similar observations were made in the case of the Union Drug Co. Ltd.(1):
years, for wage scales when settled are intended to be long term- schemes."
This consideration however of the capacity of the industry to pay does not militate against the construction adopted above that rates of wages do comprise within their scope the scales of wages also and it therefore follows that the fixation of rates of wages would also include the fixation of scales of wages. As a matter of fact, the provisions in regard to the statutory minimum wages in Queensland, Western Australia, and Tasmania prescribe scales of wages which are graduated according to age and experience. The capacity of the industry to pay being thus one of the essential ingredients in the fixation of wages, it is relevant to consider the different methods of measuring such capacity.
The capacity of the industry to pay:
The Bombay Textile Labour Inquiry Committee came to the conclusion that it was not possible to define the term "capacity to pay" in -a precise manner and observed as follows:
As regards the measure of the capacity again there are two points of view in regard to the same:
The other view is that the fair wage must be paid at any cost and that industry must go on paying such wage as long as it does not encroach on capital to pay that wage......... The objective is not merely to determine wages which are fair in the abstract, but to see that employment at existing levels is not only maintained but, if possible, increased. From this point of view, it will be clear that the level of wages should enable the industry to maintain production with efficiency. The capacity of industry to pay should, therefore, be assessed in the light of this very important consideration. The wages board should also be charged with the duty of seeing that fair wages so fixed for any particular industry are not very much out of line with wages in other industries in that region. Wide disparities would inevitably lead to movement of labour, and consequent industrial unrest not only in the industry concerned but in other industries." (1) The main consideration which is to be borne in mind therefore is that the industry should be able to maintain production with efficiency and the fixation of rates,of wages should be such that there are no movements from one industry to another owing to wide disparities and employment at existing levels is not only maintained, but if possible, increased.
Different tests have been suggested for measuring the capacity of the industry to pay: viz:
The principles which emerge from the above discussion are:
These are the principles of fixation of rates of wages and it falls now to be considered what is the machinery employed for such fixation.
The machinery for fixations of wages:
general and employers in general being represented. This group includes among others the Industrial Welfare Commission of Texas, consisting of the Commissioner of Labour, the representative of employers of labour on the Industrial Accidents Board and the State Superintendent of Public Instruction; the Minimum Wage Board of Manitoba, composed of two representatives of employers, and two of workers (one of each to be a woman) and one disinterested person; and the South Australian Board of Industry, consist- ing of a President and four Commissioners, two of whom are to be nominated by the South Australian Employers' Federation and two by the United Trades and Labour Council of the State. On the other hand are those Boards representative of one trade only or of part of a trade, or of a group of allied trades. An attempt is made to obtain a body of specialists and the membership of the Board reflects this intention. It will contain an equal number of representatives of employers and workers, together with an impartial chairman, and in some cases members of the public as well. Of this type are the British Trade Boards; the South Australian, Victorian and Tasmanian Wages Boards; and the Advisory or Wages Boards set up by many of the Central Commissioners in the United States and Canada. " (1) The following is a brief description of the composition and working of wages boards in the United Kingdom:
are appointed on the recommendation of the associations concerned. The trade board publishes a notice announcing its tentative proposals for the fixation or revision of a wage rate and invites objections or comments. After a two months' notice the board takes a final decision and submits a report to the Minister who must confirm the rate unless, for any special reasons, he returns the recommendations to the board for further consideration." (1) The Wage Council Act, 1945 (8 & 9 Geo. VI, ch. 17) provides for the establishment of Wage Councils. The Minister of Labour and National Service has the power to make a wages council order after considering objections made with respect to the draft order on behalf of any person appearing to him to be affected. The Wage Council makes such investigation as it thinks fit and publishes notice of the wage regulation proposals and parties affected are entitled to make written representations with respect to these proposals which representations the Wage Council considers. The Wage Council can make such further enquiries as it considers necessary and thereafter submit the proposals to the Minister either without amendment or with such amendments as it thinks fit in regard to the same. The Minister considers these wage regulations proposals and makes an order giving effect to the proposals from such date as may be specified in the order. Remuneration fixed by the wage regulation orders is called statutory minimum remuneration. There are also similar provisions under the Agricultural Wage Regulation Act, 1924 (14 & 15 Geo. V, ch. 37) in regard to the regulation of wages by Agricultural Wages Committees and the Agricultural Wages Board. In Canada and Syria a board consists of generally 5 members, but in China the size of the board varies from 9 to 15. In all these countries employers and workers obtain equal representation. In Canada the boards are required to enquire into the conditions of work and wages. In some provinces the boards are authorised to issue orders or decrees while in others (1) The Report of the Committee on Fair Wages, pp. 25-26, para. 30.
the recommendations have to be submitted to the Lieutenant Governor who issues orders.
in 1896 as a means of directly regulating wages -and working conditions in industries subject to " sweating ", and was not intended to control industrial relations as such.
This Act is limited in its operation to the so-called sweated industries in which labour is practically unorganised and working conditions are far worse than in organised industry. Under that Act the appropriate Government has either to appoint a Committee to hold enquiries and to advise it in regard to the fixation of minimum rates of wages or, if it thinks that it has enough material on hand, to publish its proposals for the fixation of wages in the official gazette and to invite objections. The appropriate Government finally fixes the minimum rates of wages on receipt of the recommendations of the Committee or of objections from the public. There is no provision for any appeal. There is an advisory board in each province to co-ordinate the work of the various committees. There is also a Central Advisory Board to co-ordinate the work of provincial boards. Complaints of non-payment of the minimum rates of wages fixed by Government may be taken to claims authorities. Breaches of the Act are punishable by criminal courts." (1) It is worthy of note that these committee, subcommittees, advisory board and central advisory board are to consist of persons to be nominated by the Central Government representing employers and employees in the scheduled employments, who shall be equal in number, and independent persons not exceeding one-third of its total number of members; one of such independent persons shall be appointed the chairman by the appropriate Government.
51, 52.
pay. When a matter has been referred to a wages board, no proceedings may be commenced or continued before a conciliator, conciliation board, labour court or industrial court. The wages boards are authorised to form committees for local areas for the purpose of making enquiries. It is obligatory on" Government to declare the decisions of the wages boards binding, but where Government feel that it will be inexpedient on public grounds to give effect to the whole or any part of the decision, the matter has to be placed before the Provincial Legislature, the decision of which will be binding. There is provision for the filing of appeals from the decisions of the wages boards to the Industrial Court." (1) Those wage boards moreover are under the superintendence of the Industrial Court.
We may also notice here Recommendation 30, being the recommendation concerning the application of Minimum Wage- Fixing Machinery made by the International Labour Office, 1949 (2):
effective decisions being reached in the event of the votes of the employers' and workers' representatives being equally divided. Such independent persons should, as far as possible, be selected in agreement with or after consultation with the employers' and workers' representatives on the wage fixing body.
(b)In order to ensure that the employers' and workers' representatives shall be persons having the confidence of those whose interests they respectively represent, the employers and workers concerned should be given a voice as far as is practicable in the circumstances in the selection of their representatives, and if any organisations of the employers and workers exist these should in any case be invited to submit names of persons recommended by them for appointment on the wage-fixing body.
(c)The independent person or persons mentioned in paragraph (a) -should be selected from among men or women recognised as possessing the necessary qualifications for their duties and as being dissociated from any interest in the trade or part of trade concerned which might be calculated to put their impartiality in question. "
It is clear therefore that a wage board relating to a, particular trade or industry constituted of equal number of representatives of employers and employees, with an independent member or members one of whom is appointed a chairman, is best calculated to arrive at the proper fixation of wages in that industry.
Principles for guidance.
If a wage board is thus appointed it is necessary that the principles for its guidance in wage fixation should also be laid down by the appointing authority. The following passage from "Minimum Wage-An International Survey-I.L.O. Geneva, 1939, summarises the position as it obtains in various countries:
In the United States of America the Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938 enunciates certain principles for the guidance of the industry committees which are convened by the Administrator under the Act:
No classification shall be made under this section on the basis of age or sex."
The normal rule however is to leave a wide discretion to the tribunals responsible for the fixation of wages inasmuch as they being constituted of equal numbers of representatives of the employers and the employees are best calculated to appreciate the whole position and arrive at correct results.
Procedure to be followed :
councils. When these proposals are again submitted by the wage council the same -procedure is followed as in the case of original proposals made by them.
The reports of the industry committees convened by the administrator in the United States of America are subject to scrutiny by the administrator who gives notice to all interested persons and gives them an opportunity of being heard in regard to the same. it is only after this is done that he approves and carries into effect the recommendations in these reports on his being fully satisfied that they are proper and if he disapproves of these recommendations he again refers the matter to such committees for further considerations and recommendations. The orders of the administrator are again subject to review in the Circuit Court of Appeals in the United States and further revision in the U. S. Supreme Court upon certiorari or certification. As regards the determinations of the special boards in some of the States of the Commonwealth of Australia appeals lie against the same to the court of industrial appeals and they are also challengeable before the High Court. Such safeguards are also provided in our Minimum Wages Act, 1948. Here the work of the committees, sub-committees and advisory committees is coordinated by advisory boards and the work of the advisory boards is coordinated by the central advisory board which advises the Central Government in the matter of the fixing of the minimum rates of wages and other matters under the Act and it is after the receipt of such advice from the Central advisory board by the appro- priate Government that the latter takes action in the matter of fixation or revision of minimum rates of wages. Where, however, the appropriate Government propose to fix the minimum rates of wages without reference to the various committees, or sub-committees, it publishes its proposals by notification in the Official Gazette for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and fixes the minimum rates of wages only after considering the representations received by it from the interested parties.
The wage boards appointed by the amended Bombay Industrial- Relations Act, 1946, are subject to the appellate jurisdiction as well as supervisory jurisdiction of the industrial courts in the State and parties affected by their decisions are entitled to file appeals against the same in the industrial courts.
If these safeguards are provided against the determinations of the wage boards, it will be really immaterial what procedure they adopt in the course of the proceedings before them. They would normally be expected to adopt all procedure necessary to gather sufficient data and collect sufficient materials to enable them to come to a proper conclusion in regard to the matters submitted to them for their determination' If however at any time they flouted the regulations prescribed in regard to the procedure to be followed by them or in the absence of any such regulations adopted a procedure -which was contrary to the principles of natural justice their decision would be vitiated and liable to be set aside by the appropriate authority. Charactero the functions performed:
The distinction between a legislative and a judicial function is thus brought out in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 8th Edn., Vol. 1, ch. V under the caption of "
The following classic passage from the opinion of Holmes, J., in Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co. Ltd., (1), is very apposite in this context:
looks, to the future and changes existing conditions by making a new rule, to be applied thereafter to all or some part of those subject to its power. The establishment of a rate is the making of a rule for the future, and therefore, is an act legislative not judicial in kind....................................................... That question depends not upon the character of the body, but upon the character of the proceedings.
The nature of the final act determines the nature of the previous enquiry."
(See also Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co. (1) and Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Green Garrett (2) A practical difficulty however arises in thus characterising the functions as legislative or judicial because the functions performed by administrative agencies do not fall within watertight compartments. Stason and Cooper in their treatises on " Cases and other materials on Administrative Tribunals" point out:
This difficulty is solved by the Court considering I in a proper case whether the administrative agency performs a predominantly legislative or judicial or administrative function and determining its character accordingly. (Vide:
Griffith's Principles of Administrative Lam, contains the following passage at p. 39:
Barbare Wootton in " Social Foundations of Wage Policy; Modern Methods of Wage Determination makes the following observations at p. 88:
representative members of the latter are chosen from within the industry concerned, whereas employers and workers on arbitration tribunal come from outside the industry whose disputes they have to resolve; if in any case technical knowledge of a particular industry is required, this is normally supplied by the help of assessors who take no part in the final award. This difference between the constitution of wage boards and that of arbitration tribunals clearly implies a corresponding distinction between the legislative function of the former and the judicial function of the latter. The wages board drafts laws for its own industry, whereas the arbitration court gives judgment on matters submitted by others. The choice of industrial arbitrators unconnected with the industries the merits of whose claims they must pledge, is evidently intended as a guarantee that they, like other judges, will be free from bias arising from personal interest ". The High Court of the Commonwealth of Australia has taken a similar view in Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation v. Whybrow & Co. (1), in discussing an award made by the wages board empowered by a State statute to fix minimum rates of wages. The test applied for determining the character of that function may be stated in the words of Issacs J. at p. 318:
rights asserted, nor a future rule of conduct prescribed, but merely a fact ascertained necessary for the practical effectuation of admitted rights, the proceeding, though called an arbitration, is rather in the nature of an appraisement or ministerial act. "
(See also the decision of this Court in Nagendra Nath Bora v. Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam (1). In order therefore to determine whether an administrative body is exercising a quasi-judicial function, it would be necessary to examine in the first instance, whether it has to decide on evidence between a proposal and an opposition and secondly, whether it is under a duty to act judicially in the matter of arriving at its decision.
in each case in the light of the circumstances of the particular case and the construction of the particular statute, with the assistance of the general principles already set out." (Ibid, para. 115).
The decision in R. v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee Ex parte R. A. Brand & Co. Ltd. (1), lays down when an administrative body can be said to have a duty to act judicially:
standing that such a tribunal is entitled to act on its own knowledge and information, without evidence unless submitted, and without a hearing except on notice from a party; see Rex v. Brighton. and Area Rent Tribunal (1).
points at issue would have to be' arrived at by the wage boards and the wage boards could only do so after collecting proper data and materials and hearing evidence in that behalf. If the functions performed by the wage board would thus consist of the determination of the issues as between a proposition and an opposition on data and materials gathered by the board in answers to the questionnaire issued to all parties interested and the evidence led before it, there is no doubt that there would be imported in the proceedings of the wage board a duty to act judicially and the functions performed by the wage board would be quasijudicial in character. It has been on the other hand urged before us by the learned counsel for the respondents that the very constitution of the wage boards is against the fundamental principle of jurisprudence which postulates that no man should be a judge in his own cause. It was laid down by the House of Lords in Franklin v. Minister of Town and Country Planning (1) at p. 103:
should be confined to its proper sphere. Its proper significance, in my opinion, is to denote a departure from the standard of even-handed justice which the law requires from those who occupy judicial office, or those who are commonly regarded as holding a quasi-judicial office, such as an arbitrator. The reason for this clearly is, that having to adjudicate as between two or more parties, he must come to his adjudication with an independent mind, without any inclination or bias towards one side or other in the dispute."
The representatives of the employers and the representatives of the employees who are appointed on the wage board along with an independent chairman and some other members, it is submitted, would necessarily have a bias in favour of those whom they represent and therefore would not be competent to be judges and the wage board thus constituted could hardly be called a judicial body.
There is considerable force in these contentions, but (1) [1948] A.C. 87,102.
we do not feel called upon to express our final opinion on this question in view of the conclusion which we have hereafter reached in regard to the ultra vires character of the decision of the Wage Board itself. We are however bound to observe that whatever be the character of the functions performed by the wage boards whether they be legislative or quasi-judicial, if proper safeguards are adopted of the nature discussed earlier, e. g., provision for judicial review or the adopting of the procedure as in the case of the recommendations of the wage councils in the United Kingdom, or the reports of the advisory committees which come to be considered by the administrator under the Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938 in the United States of America, no objection could ever be urged against the determinations of the wage boards thus arrived at on the score of the principles of natural justice having been violated.
We now proceed to consider how far the impugned Act violates the fundamental rights of the petitioners. Re : Article 19 (1) (a).
Art. 19 (1) (a) guarantees to all citizens the right to freedom of speech and expression. it has, however, got to be read along with Art. 19 (2) which lays down certain constitutionally permissible limitations on the exercise of that right. Art. 19 (2) as substituted by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, with retrospective effect reads as under:
If any limitation on the exercise of the fundamental right under Art. 19 (1) (a) does not fall within the four corners of Art. 19 (2) it cannot be upheld.
Freedom of speech and expression includes within its scope the freedom of the press and it would be apposite here to refer to the following passages from "
Resulting Conception of Freedom of the Press:
Liberty of circulation is as essential to that freedom as the liberty of publication. Indeed, without circulation the publication would be of little value.": Ex parte Jackson (2). See also Lovell V. City of Griffin (3).
Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. The State, of Delhi (4) was the next case which came up for decision before this Court and it concerned the constitutionality of section 7 (i) (e) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949. It was a provision for the imposition of pre-censorship on a journal. Patanjali Sastri J. (as he then was) (1) [1950] S.C.R- 594, 597.
(2) (1877)96 U-S- 727 ; 24 L. Ed. 877.
(3) (1937) 303 U-S- 444 ; 82 L. Ed. 949.
(4) [1950] S.C.R. 605, 6o8.
who delivered the majority judgment observed at p. 608:-
These are the only two decisions of this Court which involve the interpretation of Art. 19 (1) (a) and they only lay down that the freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas which freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation and that the liberty of the press is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression and that liberty of the press consists in allowing no previous restraint upon publication. There is however, a considerable body of authority to be found in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America bearing on this concept of the freedom of speech and expression. Amendment I of that Constitution lays down:
It is trite to observe that the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression enshrined in Art. 19(1)(a) of our Constitution is based on these provisions in Amendment I of the Constitution of the United States of America and it would be therefore legitimate and proper to refer to those decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America in order to appreciate the true nature, scope and extent of this right in spite of the warning administered by this Court against the use of American and other cases, (Vide State of Travancore-Cochin & Ors. v. Bombay Co.
Ltd. (1) and State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (2). Grosjean v. American Press Co. (3), was a case where a statute imposed a license tax on the business of publishing advertisements and it was observed at p. 668:
It was also observed there at p. 965:
Schneider v. Irvingtor (5) was concerned with the effect of the Municipal Regulations against littering of (1) [1952] S.C. R. I I 12, I 120. (2) [1957] S. C. R. 87 4,
918. (3) (1935) 297 U.S. 233, 249; go L. Ed. 66o, 668. (4) (1936) 30I U.S. 103. 136; 81 L. Ed. 953. 963. (5) (1939) 308 U-S- 147; 84 L. Ed. 155, 164.
streets. In the course of its decision the Court made the following observations at p. 164:
Non-interference by the State with this right was emphasized in Thomas v. Collins (1) at p. 448:-
The dissenting opinion of Douglas J. in Beauharnais v. Illinois(2) contains the following at p. 943:
There is room for regulation of the ways and means of invading privacy. No such leeway is granted the invasion of the right of free speech guaranteed by the First Amendment. Until recent years that had been the course and direction of constitutional law. Yet recently the Court in this and other cases has engraved the right of regulation onto the First Amendment by placing in the hands of the legislative branch the right to regulate " within reasonable limits "
It is clear from the above that in the United States of America:
employment of the necessary means of exercising this right or in other words, freedom from restriction in respect of employment in the editorial force.
This is the concept of the freedom of speech and expression as it obtains in the United States of America and the necessary corollary thereof is that no measure can be enacted which would have the effect of imposing a pre- censorship, curtailing the circulation or restricting the choice of employment or unemployment in the editorial force. Such a measure would certainly tend to infringe the freedom of speech and expression and would therefore be liable to be struck down as unconstitutional.
The press is however, not immune from. the ordinary forms of taxation for support of the Government nor from the application of the general laws relating to industrial relations. It was observed in Grosjean v. American Press Co. (1):
(1) (1935) 297 U-S- 233, 249; 80 L. Ed. 660, 668.
In The Associated Press v. National Labour Relations Board (1), it was held that the freedom of the press safeguarded by the First Amendment was not abridged by the application in the case of an editor employed by the Associated Press to determine the news value of the items received and to rewrite them for transmission to members of the association throughout the United States who must function without bias and prejudice, of the provisions of the National Labour Relations Act which inhibited an employer from discharging an employee because of union activities. It was further observed at p. 960:
Murdock v. Pennsylvania (2), was a case of a license fee for the sale of religious books and Mr. Justice Frankfurter in his dissenting opinion at p. 1311 observed:
In Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling (1), and in Mabee v. White Planis Publishing Co. (4) the Federal Fair Labour Standards Act was held applicable to the press and it was observed in the former case at p. 621:
publishers of newspapers upon the same plane with other businesses and the exemption for small newspapers had the same object. Nothing in the Grosjean case (1), forbids Congress to exempt some publishers because of size from either a tax or a regulation which would be valid if applied to all."
The Constitution of the United States of America--Analysis and Interpretation-Prepared by the Legislative Reference Service, Library of Congress, summarises the position thus at p. 792 :
The Laws regulating payment of wages have similarly been held as not abridging the freedom of speech and expression and the following observations in the same publication (at p. 988) in regard to the Minimum Wage Laws are apposite:
to decide whether the policy which it expresses offends the public welfare............ But the state legislatures have constitutional authority to experiment with new techniques; they are entitled to their own standard of the public welfare; they may within extremely broad ,limits control practice; in the business-labor field, so long as specific constitutional prohibitions are not violated and so long as conflicts with valid and controlling federal laws are avoided (Day-Brite Lighting, Inc. v. Missouri, 342 U. S. 421, 423 (1952) )."
While therefore no such immunity from the general laws can be claimed by the press it would certainly not be legitimate to subject the press to laws which take away or abridge the freedom of speech and expression or which would curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, or fetter its freedom to choose its means of exercising the right or would undermine its independence by driving it to seek Government aid. Laws which single out the press for laying upon it excessive and prohibitive burdens which would restrict the circulation, impose a penalty on its right to choose the instruments for its exercise or to seek an alternative media, prevent news- papers from being started and ultimately drive the press to seek Government aid in order to survive, would therefore be struck down as unconstitutional.
Such laws would not be saved by Art. 19(2) of the Constitution. This Court had occasion to consider the scope of Art. 19(2) in Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. The State of Delhi (1), where Fazl Ali J. in his dissenting judgment observed at p. 619.
But the Constitution itself has prescribed certain limits and this Court is only called upon to see whether a particular case comes within those limits. "
Article 19 (2) being thus out of the question the only point that falls to be determined by us is whether the provisions of the impugned Act in any way take away or abridge the petitioners' fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression.
It was contended before us by the learned Attorney-General that it was only legislation directly dealing with the right mentioned in Art. 19 (1) (a) that was protected by it. If the legislation was not a direct legislation on the subject " Art. 19 (1) (a) would have no application, the test being not the effect or result of legislation but its subject- matter. In support of his contention he relied upon the following observations of Kania C. J. in A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras (1).
same argument was urged in respect of the rest of the rights mentioned in sub-clauses (b), (c), (d), (e) and (g). Although this argument is advanced in a case which deals with preventive detention, if correct, it should be applicable in the case of punitive detention also to any one sentenced to a term of imprisonment Linder the relevant section of the Indian Penal Code. So considered, the argument must clearly be rejected In spite of the saving clauses (2) to (5), permitting abridgement of the rights connected with each of them punitive detention under several sections of the Penal Code, e. g., for theft,, cheating, forgery and even ordinary assault, will be illegal. Unless such conclusion necessarily follows front the article, it is obvious that such construction should be avoided. In my opinion, such result is clearly not the outcome of the Constitution. The article has to be read. without any pro- conceived notions. So read, it clearly means that the legislation to be examined must be directly in respect of one of the rights mentioned in the sub-clauses. -If there is a legislation directly attempting to control a citizen's freedom of speech or expression, or his right to assemble peaceably and without arms, etc,, the question whether that legislation is saved by the relevant saving clause of article 19 will arise. If, however, the legislation is not directly in respect of any of these subjects, but as a result of the operation of other legislation, -for instance, for punitive or preventive detention, his right under any of these sub-clauses is abridged, the question of the application of article 19 does not arise. The true approach is only to consider the directness of the legislation and not what will be the result of the detention otherwise valid, on the mode of the detent's life. On that short ground, in my opinion, this argument about the infringement of the rights mentioned in article 19 (1) generally must fail. Any other construction put on the article, it seems to me, will be unreasonable."
This opinion was expressed by Kania C. J. alone, the other learned judges forming the Bench not expressing themselves on this question. This passage was, however cited, with approval by a Bench of this Court in Ram Singh & Ors. v. The State of Delhi (1). It was held by the Full Court in that case that though personal liberty is sufficiently comprehensive to include the freedoms enumerated in Art. 19 (1) and its deprivation would result in the extinction of these freedoms, the Constitution his treated these constitutional liberties as distinct fundamrntal rights and made separate provisions in Arts. 19, 21 and 22 ,is to the limitations and conditions subject to which alone they could be taken away or abridged. Consequently, even though a law which restricts the freedom of speech and expression is not directed solely against the, undermining of security of the State or its overthrow but is concerned generally in the interests of public order may not fait within the reservation of cl. (2) of Art. 19 and may therefore be void, an order of preventive detention cannot be held to be, invalid merely because:
This was also a case of detention under the Preventive Detention Act and the detention of the detenu had been ordered with a view to prevent him from making speeches prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. Public order was not one of the categories mentioned in Art. 19 (2) as it then stood, and any restriction imposed upon the freedom of speech and expression could nit be justified on that ground, the only relevant ground in that connection then being undermining of the security of the State or its overthrow. A restriction on the freedom of speech and expression ill the maintenance of public order would therefore not have been justified under Art. 19 (2) and if the Court had come to the conclusion that there was an infringement of the right of freedom of speech and expression the order could not have been saved under Art. 19 (2). The Court however, took the view that the direct object of the order was preventive detention and not the infringement of the right of freedom of speech and expression, which was merely (1)[1951] S.C.R.451, 455.
consequential upon the detention of the detenu and therefore upheld the validity of the order. It was, therefore, urged by the learned Attorney-General that the object of the impugned Act was only to regulate certain conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in the newspaper establishments and not to take away or abridge the right of freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the petitioners and that therefore the impugned Act could not come within the prohibition of Art. 19 (1) (a) read with. Art. 13 (2) of the Constitution.
It was contended, on the other hand, on behalf of the petitioners that the Court has got to look at the true nature and character of the legislation and judge its substance and not its form, or in other words, its effect and operation. It was pointed out that the impugned Act viewed as a whole was one to regulate the employment of the necessary organs of newspaper publications and therefore related to the freedom of the Press and as such came within the prohibition. Reliance was placed in this behalf on the following passage in Minnesota Ex Rel. Olson (1):
The following observations of Mahajan J. (as he then was) in Dwarkadas Shrinivas of Bombay v. The Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co., Ltd. (2) were also relied upon:
by employing indirect method of achieving exactly the same result. Therefore, in all such cases the court has to look behind the names, forms and appearances to discover the true character and nature of the legislation."
The impugned Act is as its long title shows an act to regulate certain conditions of service of working journa- lists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments and in the very forefront of the Act, the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, is by s. 3 made applicable to working journalists with certain modification in connection with the application of s. 25F of that Act. The rest of the provisions contained in ch. II concerned themselves with the payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave and fixation of wages of the -working journalists. The regulation of the conditions of service is thus the main object which is sought to be achieved by the impugned Act. Chapter III of the Act applies the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952, to all the employees of the newspaper establishments wherein twenty or more newspaper employees are employed and covers working journalists as well as other employees in the employ of the newspaper establishments. The miscellaneous provisions contained in ch. IV are designed merely to implement or to carry out the provisions of the main part of. the Act and they do not make any difference so far as the effect and operation of the Act is concerned. If this is the true nature of the Act, it is impossible to say that the Act was designed to affect the freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the petitioners or that was its necessary effect and operation. It was conceded in the course of the arguments that if a general law in regard to the industrial or labour relations had been applied to the press industry as a whole no exception could have been taken to it. If the matter had rested with the application of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the working journalists or with the application of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, or the Employees' Provident Fund,% Act, 1952, to them no exception could have been taken to this measure. It was, however, urged that apart from the application of these general laws to the working journalists, there are provisions enacted in the impugned Act in relation to payment of gratuity, hours of work, leave and fixation of the rates of wages which are absolutely special to the press industry qua the working journalists and they have the effect of singling out the press industry by creating a class of privileged workers with benefits and rights which have not been conferred upon other employees and the provisions contained therein have the effect of laying a direct and preferential burden on the press, have a tendency to curtail the circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, fetter the petitioner's freedom to choose the means of exercising their right and are likely to undermine the independence of the press by having to seek Government aid.
It is obvious that the enactment of this measure is for the amelioration of the conditions of the workmen in the newspaper industry. It would not be possible for the State to take up all the industries together and even as a matter of policy it would be expedient to take the industries one by one. Even in regard to the workmen employed it would be equally expedient to take a class of employees who stand in a separate category by themselves for the purpose of benefiting them in the manner contemplated. This circumstance by itself would therefore not be indicative of any undue preference or a prejudicial treatment being meted out to that particular industry, the main object being the amelioration of the conditions of those workmen. It could not also be said that there was any ulterior motive behind the enactment of such a measure because the employers may have to share a greater financial burden than before or that the working of the industry may be rendered more difficult than before. These are all incidental disadvantages which may manifest themselves in the future working of the industry, but it could not be said that the Legislature in enacting that measure was aiming at these disadvantages when it was trying to ameliorate the conditions of the workmen. Those employers who are favourably situated, may not feel the strain at all while those of them who are marginally situated may not be able to bear the strain and may in conceivable cases have to disappear 'after closing down their establishments. That, however, would be a consequence. which would be extraneous and not within the contemplation of the Legislature. It could therefore hardly be urged that the possible effect of the impact of these measures in conceivable cases would vitiate the legislation as such. All the consequences which have been visualized in this behalf by the petitioners, viz., the tendency to curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, fetters on the petitioners' freedom to choose the means of exercising the right, likelihood of the independence of the press being undermined by having to seek government aid; the imposition of penalty on the petitioners' right to choose the instruments for exercising the freedom or compelling them to seek alternative media, etc., would be remote and depend upon various factors which may or may not come into play. Unless these were the direct or inevitable consequences of the measures enacted in the impugned Act, it would not be possible to strike down the legislation as having that effect and operation. A possible eventuality of this type would not necessarily be the consequence which could be in the contemplation of the Legislature while enacting a measure of this type for the benefit of the workmen concerned.
Even though the impugned Act enacts measures for the benefit of the working journalists who are employed in newspaper establishments, the working journalists are but the vocal organs and the necessary agencies for the exercise of the right of free speech and expression, and any legislation directed towards the amelioration of their conditions of service must necessarily affect the newspaper establishments and have its repercussions on the freedom of Press. The impugned Act can therefore be legitimately characterized as a measure which affects the press, and if the intention or the proximate effect and operation of the Act was such as to bring it within the mischief of Art. 19(1) (a) it would certainly be liable to be struck down. The real difficulty, however, in the way of the petitioners is that whatever be the measures enacted for the benefit of the working journalists neither the intention nor the effect and operation of the impugned Act is to take away or abridge the right of freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the petitioners.
The gravamen of the complaint of the petitioners against the impugned Act, however, has been the appointment of the Wage Board for fixation of rates of wages for the working journalists and it is contended that apart from creating a class of privileged workers with benefits and rights which were not conferred upon other employees of industrial establishments, the Act has left the fixation of rates of wages to an agency invested with arbitrary and uncanalised powers to impose an indeterminate burden on the wage structure of the press, to impose such employer-employee relations as in its discretion it thinks fit and to impose such burden and relation-, for such time as it thinks proper. This contention will be more appropriately dealt with while considering the alleged infringement of the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 19(1) (g). Suffice it to say that so far as Art. 19(1) (a) is concerned this contention also has a remote bearing on the same and need not be discussed here at any particular length. Re: Article (19(1) (g).
The fundamental right of the petitioners herein is the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business. This freedom also is hemmed in by limitations which are to be found in Art. 19(6), which in so far as it is relevant for our purposes enacts:
The contention under this head is thus elaborated on behalf of the petitioners:
2.The restrictions enumerated above in so far as they affect the destruction of the petitioners' business exceed the bounds of permissible legislation under Art. 19(1)(g). The unreasonableness of the restriction is further sought to be emphasized by pointing out that under s. 12 of the impugned Act, the decision of the Board is declared binding on all employers, though the working journalists axe not bound by the same and are entitled, if they are dissatisfied with it, to agitate for further revision by raising industrial disputes between themselves and their employers and having them adjudicated under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
The test of reasonable restrictions which can be imposed on the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 19(1)(g) has been laid down by this Court in two decisions:
of the right should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public. The word " reasonable " implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is, the choice of a course which reason dictates. Legislation which arbitrarily or excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom guaranteed in article 19(1)(g), and the social control permitted by clause (6) of article 19, it must be held to be wanting in that quality." [cited with approval in Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. (1) and in Ch. Tika Ramji v. State of' Uttar Pradesh & Ors. (2) ].
The State of Madras v. V. G. Rao (3) was the next case in which this phrase came to be considered by this Court and Patanjali Sastri C. J. observed at p. 606:-
of the imposition, the prevailing conditions at the time, should all enter into the judicial verdict." This criterion was approved of in State of West Benqal v. Subodh Gopat Bose & Others (1) where the present Chief Justice further expressed his opinion that the fact of the statute being given retrospective operation may also be properly taken into consideration in determining the reasonableness of the restriction imposed in the interest of the general public [see also a recent decision of this Court in Virendra v. State of Punjab (2)].
The appointment of a wage board for the purposes of fixing rates of wages could not be and was not challenged as such because the constitution of such wage boards has been considered one of the appropriate modes for the fixation of rates of wages. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, can only apply when an industrial dispute actually arises or is apprehended to arise between the employers and the employees in a particular industrial establishment. Though under the amendment of that Act by the Industrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1956, (36 of 1956), there is a provision for the appointment of a National Tribunal by the Central Government for the adjudication of industrial disputes which in the opinion of the Central Government involve questions of national importance or are of such a nature that industrial establishments situated in more than one State are likely to be interested in, or affected by, such dispute (Vide s. 7-B) the condition precedent, however, is the existence of an industrial dispute or the appre- hension of one. If the wages for the employees of a particular industry have got to be fixed without such an industrial dispute having arisen or being apprehended to arise, the only proper mode of such fixation would be the appointment of wage boards for the purpose. They take the place of Industrial Tribunals or National Industrial Tribunals and are generally constituted of equal number of representatives of the employers and the employees in that particular industry along with a quota of independent member or (1) [1954] S.C.R. 587, 626.
(2) [1958] S.C.R. 308.
members one of whom is appointed the chairman of the Board. The main grievance of the petitioners, however, has been that the relevant criteria for the fixation of rates of wages were not laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act. Section 8 empowered the Central Government to constitute a wage board for fixing rates of wages in respect of working journalists in accordance with the provisions of the Act and s. 9(1) directed that in fixing such rates of wages the Board &hall have regard to the cost of living, the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments, the circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country and to any other circumstances which to the Board may seem relevant. These criteria, it was contended, were only relevant for fixing minimum rates of wages,' though the word " minimum " which had been used in the Bill No. 13 of 1955 as introduced in the Rajya Sabha was deleted when the Act actually came to be passed and it was further contended that the capacity of the Industry to pay which was an essential circumstance to be taken into consideration in the fixation of wages was not set out as one of the circumstances to be taken into consideration by the Board in fixing rates of wages. It was also contended that the other circumstances which the Board was directed to consider in addition to those specifically enumerated in s. 9(1) were such as to the Board may seem relevant thus relegating these circumstances to the subjective determination of the Board with the necessary consequence that no Court or other authority could scrutinize the same objectively. We do not propose to enter into any elaborate discussion on the question whether it would be competent to us in arriving at a proper construction of the expression " fixing rates of wages " to look into the Statement of Objects and Reasons attached to the Bill No. 13 of 1955 as introduced in the Rajya Sabha or the circumstances under which the word "
We have already stated in the earlier part of this judgment that the Act was passed with a view to implement the recommendations of the Press Commission's Report and we have already seen that the concept of minimum wage, as adopted by the Press Commission was not that of a bare subsistence or minimum wage but what it termed a minimum wage was meant to provide for not merely the bare subsistence of living, but for the efficiency of the worker, making provision also for some measure of education, medical requirements and amenities. If this was the concept of a minimum wage which the Legislature set about to implement, that minimum was certainly higher than the bare subsistence or minimum wage, and, in any event, required a consideration by the Wages Board of the capacity of the industry to pay, even though the Press Commission itself did not think it necessary, to do so, it having expressed the opinion that if a newspaper industry could not afford to pay to its employees a minimum wage, which would enable them to live decently and with dignity, that newspaper had no right to exist. This was the concept of a minimum wage which was sought to be implemented by the legislature and for that purpose the capacity of the industry to pay was an essential circumstance to be taken into consideration and the deletion of the word " minimum ", if at (1) [1953] S.C.R. I. (2) A.I.R. 1950 Cal. 116.
all, had the effect of widening the scope of the enquiry before the Wage Board. if the word " minimum " had been used in relation to the -rates of wages and the Wage Board in the impugned Act, the wage Board in its deliberations would have been necessarily confined (to a consideration of that aspect alone. But, by the deletion of that wordfrom the context the Wage Board was invested with a power to determine the question of the fixation of rates of wages unfettered by any such limitations and to fix the rates of wages in any pro- per manner having regard to the circumstances of the case, whether the resultant wages would be a statutory minimum wage or would approximate to a standard of wage, though having regard to the economic conditions of our country at present they could not find it within their power to fix living wages for the working journalists. The criteria which were specified in s. 9(1) of the Act comprised also the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments. This criterion had no relation whatever to Minimum wages. Reference may be made in this connection to a decision of the Industrial Court in the case of Nellimarla Jute Mills (1), where it was held that the comparison with rates of waves in other concerns could be undertaken for determining fair wage and the upper limit of wages but not for determining the minimum or floor level of wages which should depend on the minimum requirements of the workers' family consisting of three consumption units. This criterion was no doubt taken into consideration by the members of the Committee on Fair Wages as also by the Press Commission and even though the Press Commission considered that to be an essential ingredient of the minimum wage as contemplated by it, we are not inclined to stress that circumstance so much and come to the conclusion that what was contemplated in s. 9(1) was merely a minimum wage and no other.
If, therefore, the criterion of the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments can on a true construction of s. 9(1)be considered consistent only with the fixation of rates of wages which are higher than (1) [1053] 1 L.L.J. 666, the bare subsistence or minimum wage whether they be statutory minimum wage or fair wage or even living wage, it could not be urged that the criteria specified in s. 9(1) of the Act were relevant only for fixation of minimum wages. The capacity of the industry to pay was therefore one of the essential circumstances to be taken into consideration by the Wage Board whether it be for the fixation of rates of wages or the scales of wages which, as we have observed before, were included within the expression " rates of wages ". This was by no means an unimportant circumstance which could be assigned a minor role. It was as important as the cost of living, and the prevalent rates of wages for comparable employments and ought to have been specifically mentioned in s. 9(1). The Legislature however, was either influenced in not mentioning it as such by reason of the view taken by the Press Commission in that behalf or thought that the third criterion which was specified in s. 9(1), viz., the circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country was capable of including the same. Even here, there is considerable difficulty in reconciling oneself to this mode of construction. The capacity of the industry to pay, can only be considered on an industry -cum- region basis and this circumstance from that point of view would be capable of being included in this criterion, viz., the circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country. Even if it were thus capable of being included, the minor role assigned to it along with literacy of the population, the popularity of the newspapers, predilections of the population in the matter of language and other circumstances of the like nature prevailing in the different regions of the country would make it difficult to imagine that this circumstance of the capacity of the industry to pay was really in the mind of the Legislature, particularly when it is remembered that the Press Commission attached no signifi- cance to the same. From that point of view, the criticism of the petitioners would appear to be justified viz., :-that it was not made incumbent on the Board to consider the major factor of the capacity of the industry to pay as an essential circumstance in fixing the rates of wages. It is, however, well-recognized that the Courts would lean towards the constitutionality of an enactment and if it is possible to read this circumstance as comprised within the category of circumstances relating to the newspaper industry in different regions of the country, the court should not strike down the provisions as in any manner whatever unreasonable and violative of the fundamental right of the petitioners.
We are therefore of opinion that s. 9(1) did not eschew the consideration of this essential circumstance, viz., the capacity of the industry to pay and it was not only open but incumbent upon the Wage Board to consider that essential circumstance in order to arrive at the fixation of the rates of wages of the working journalists.
The last criterion enumerated in s. 9(1) of the Act was "
determination which resulted in the superintendence of the property of a citizen being assumed could, not be scrutinized and the propriety thereof investigated by higher authorities.
This argument, however, does not help the petitioners because this criterion is on a par with or ejusdem generis with the other criteria which have been specifically enumerated in the earlier part of the section. The major and important criteria have been specifically enumerated and if would be impossible for the Legislature exhaustively to enumerate the other circumstances which would be relevant to be considered by the Board in arriving at the fixation of the rates of wages. In the course of the enquiry the Board might come across other relevant circumstances which would weigh with it in the determination of the rates of wages and it would not be possible for the Legislature to think of them or to enumerate the same as relevant considerations and it was therefore, and rightly in our opinion, left to the Board to determine the relevancy of those circumstances and take them into consideration while fixing the rates of wages. If the principles which should guide the Board in fixing the rates of wages were laid down with sufficient clarity and particularity and the criteria so far as they were of major importance were specifically enumerated there was nothing wrong in leaving other relevant considerations arising in the course of the enquiry to the subjective satisfaction of the Board. The Board was, after all, constituted of equal numbers of representatives of employers and the employees and they were best calculated to take into account all the relevant circumstances apart from those which were, specifically enumerated in the section. It was, however, contended that the procedure to be followed by the Board for fixing the rates of wages was not laid down and it was open to the Board to follow any arbitrary procedure violating the principle of audi alteram partem and as such this also was unreasonable. Section 20 (2) (d) of the impugned Act gave power to the Central Government to make rules inter alia in regard to the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of wages and s. 11 provided that subject to any rules which might be prescribed the Board may, for the purpose of fixing rates of wages, exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, exercises or follows for the purpose of adjudicating an industrial dispute referred to it. This was, however, an enabling provision which vested in the Board the discretion whether to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal. The Board was at liberty not to do so and follow its own procedure which may be arbitrary or violative of the principle of audi alteram partem.
It has to be remembered, however, that in the United Kingdom the Wage Councils and the Central Co-ordinating Committees under the Wages Councils Act, 1945, and the Agricultural Wages Board under the Agricultural Wages Regulations Act, 1924, also are empowered to regulate their proceeding in such manner as they think fit. The Wage Boards in Australia have also no formal procedure prescribed for them, though the Wage Boards which are established under the amended Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946, are enjoined to follow the same procedure as an industrial court in respect of industrial proceedings before it. It would not therefore be legitimate to hold that the procedure to be followed by the wage board for fixing rates of wages must necessarily be prescribed by the statute constituting the same. It is no doubt contemplated in each of these statutes that rules of procedure may be prescribed; but even though they, may be so prescribed, it is left to the discretion of the wage boards to regulate their procedure in such manner as they think fit, subject of course to the rules thus prescribed. A wide discretion is thus left with the wage boards to prescribe their own rules of procedure, but it does not therefore follow that they are entitled to follow any arbitrary rules of procedure. The wage boards are responsible bodies entrusted with the task of gathering data and materials relevant for the determination of the issues arising before them and even though they are not judicial tribunals but administrative agencies they would elicit all relevant information and invite answers to the questionnaire or representations from the parties concerned, hear evidence and arrive at their determination after conforming to the principles of natural justice. Even though they may perform, quasi-judicial functions, the exercise of arbitrary powers by them would not be countenanced by, any court or higher authority. In the present case, however, we have in, the forefront of the impugned Act a provision as to the application of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947, to working journalists. No doubt certain specific provisions as to payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave are specifically enacted, but when we come to the fixation of rates of wages we find that a wage board has been constituted for the purpose. The principles to be followed by the Wage Board for fixing rates of wages are also laid down and the decision of the Board is to be published in the same manner as awards of industrial courts,under the Industrial Disputes Act. Then follows s. 11 which talks of the powers and procedure of the Board and there also, subject to any rules of procedure which may be prescribed by the Central Government, the Board is empowered to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act. If regard be had to this provision it is abundantly clear that the intention of the Legislature was to assimilate the Wage Board thus constituted as much as possible to an Industrial Tribunal constituted: under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and it was contemplated that the Board may for fixing rates. of wages, exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure. The decision of the Board was to be binding on all the employers, though the working journalists were at liberty to further agitate the, question under the Industrial Disputes Act if they were not satisfied with the deciSion of the Wage Board and wanted a further increase in their rates of wages, thus determined. All these circumstances point to the conclusion that even though the Board was not bound to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an industrial tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, the Board was, in any event, not entitled to 'adopt any arbitrary procedure violating the principles of natural justice. If on the construction of the relevant sections of the statute the functions which the Wage Board was performing would be tantamount to laying down a law or rule of conduct for the future so that all the employers and the employees in the' industry not only those who were participating in it in the present but also those who would enter therein in the future would be bound by it, the dictum of Justice Holmes would apply and the functions performed by the wage board could be characterized as legislative in character. Where, however, as in the present case, the constitution of the Wage Board is considered in the background of the application of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act to the working journalists and the provisions for the exercise of the same powers and following the same procedure as an industrial tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, it would be possible to argue that the Wage Board was not exercising legislative functions but was exercising functions which were quasi-judicial in character. In this connection, it was also pointed out that the Legislature itself while enacting the impugned Act did not consider these functions as legislative at all. The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha (1957) provide in Rule No. 70 for a Bill involving proposals for the delegation of legislative power shall further be accompanied by a memorandum explaining such proposals and drawing attention to their scope and stating also whether they are of normal or exceptional character. There is also a committee on subordinate legislation which is established for scrutinizing and reporting to the House; whether the powers to make regulations, rules, sub-rules, by-laws, etc., conferred by the Constitution or delegated by Parliament are being properly exercised within 'such delegation (vide Rule 317 ibid). The constitution by the Legislature of the Wages Board in the matter of the fixation of rates of wages was not considered as a piece of delegated legislation in the memorandum regarding -delegated legislation appended to the draft Bill No. 13, of 1955 introduced in the Rajya Sabha on September 28, 1955, and the only reference that was made there was to Cl. 19 of the Bill which empowered the Central Government to make rules in respect of certain matters specified therein and it was stated that these were purely procedural matters of a routine character and related inter alia to prescribing hours of work, payment of gratuity, holidays, earned leave or other kinds of leave and the procedure to be followed by the Minimum Wager, Board in fixing minimum wages and the manner in which its decisions may be published. Clause 19 (3) of the Bill further provided that all rules made under this section shall as soon as practicable after they are made, be laid before both Houses of Parliament. These clauses were ultimately passed as s. 20 of the impugned Act but they were the only piece of delegated legislation contemplated by the Legislature and were covered by the memorandum regarding the same which was appended to the Bill. The decision of the Wage Board was not to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament which would have been the case if the fixation of rates of wages was a piece of delegated legislation. It was only to be published by the Central Government after it/ was communicated to it by the Wage Board in such manner as the Central Government thought fit, a provision which was akin to the publication of award,,; of the Industrial Tribunals by the appropriate Government under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. This circumstance also was pointed out as indicative of the intention of the Legislature not to constitute the Wage Board a sub-legislative authority. While recognizing the force of these contentions we may observe that it is not necessary for our purposes to determine the nature and character of the functions performed by the Wage Board here. It is sufficient to say that the Wage Board was not empowered or authorised to adopt any arbitrary,procedure and flout the principles of, natural justice.
It was next contended that the restrictions imposed on newspaper establishments under the terms of the impugned Act were unreasonable in so far as they would have the effect of destroying the business of the petitioners and would therefore exceed the bounds of permissible legislation under Art. 19(6). It was urged that the right to impose reasonable restrictions on the petitioners' right to carry on business did not empower the legislature to destroy the business itself and reliance was placed in support of this proposition on Stone v. Farmers Loan and Trust Co. (1), where it was observed:-
Similar observations of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in-the Municipal Corporation of the City of Toronto v. Virgo (2) and the Attorney General for Ontario v. Attorney General for the Dominion (3) were also relied upon and particularly the following observations in the former case:-
These observations were considered by this Court in Saghir Ahmed v. State of U. P. & Ors. (4) and after considering the various cases which Were cited by both sides, this Court observed:
opinion on this matter" and the Court ultimately wound up by saving that ,whether the restrictions are reasonable or not would depend to a large extent on the nature of the trade and the conditions prevalent in it."
Even if the provisions of the impugned Act would not necessarily have the effect of destroying the business of the petitioners but of crippling it and making it impossible for the petitioners to continue the same except under onerous conditions, they would have the effect of curtailing their circulation and drive them to seek government aid and thereby impose an unreasonable burden on their right to carry on business and would come within the ban of Art. 19(1) (g) read with Art. 13(2) of the Constitution. Several provisions of the impugned Act were referred to in this context. Section 2(f) of the Act which defines working journalist " so as to include " proofreader was pointed out in this connection and it was urged that even though the Press Commission Report recommended the exclusion of certain class of proof-readers from the definition of working journalists the Legislature went a step further and included all proof-readers within that definition thereby imposing upon the newspaper establishments an unreasonable burden far in excess of what they were expected to bear. The provision as to the notice in relation to the retrenchment of working journalist was also extended beyond the limitations specified in s. 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and was extended to six months in the case of an Editor and three months in the case of any other working journalist. The provision with regard to retrenchment was also made applicable retrospectively to all cases of retrenchment which had occurred between July 14, 1954, and March 12, 1955 ; so also the payment of gratuity was ordered not only in the cases usually provided for but also in cases where a working journalist who had been in continuous service for not less than three years voluntarily resigned from service from a newspaper establishment. The hours of work prescribed were 144 hours only during any period of four consecutive weeks and they were far less in number than the hours of work recommended by the Press Commission Report. The fixation of rates of wages was entrusted to the Wage Board which could fix any wages which it thought proper irrespective of the capacity of the industry to pay and might be such as the industry could not bear. These provisions taken each one by itself may not have the effect of destroying the petitioners' business altogether or even crippling it in the manner indicated but taken cumulatively along with the provisions contained in ss. 14 and 15 of the impugned Act which applied the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and, the Employees' Provident funds Act, 1952, to newspaper establishments would certainly bring about that result and would therefore constitute an unreasonable restriction on the, petitioners' right to carry on business. We shall deal with these contentions one by one. There is no doubt that " proof-readers " were not all recommended by the Press Commission to be included in the definition of working journalists, but it has to be remembered that proof-readers occupy a very important position in the editorial staff of a newspaper establishment. B. Sen Gupta in his " Journalism as a Career " (1955) talks of the position of the proof-reader as follows:
As a matter of fact, the Wage Board in the Schedule to its decision defines "proof reader" as " a person who checks up printed matter or " Proof " with edited copy to ensure strict conformity of the former with the latter. Factual discrepancies, slips of spelling, grammar and syntax may also be discovered by him and either corrected or get them corrected."
If this is the important role played by the proofreaders then no wonder that the Legislature in spite of the recommendations of the Press Commission included them also in the definition of working journalist. No doubt they would be entitled to higher wages by reason of the fixation of rates of wages by the Wage Board but that would by itself be no ground for holding the inclusion of proof-readers within the definition of working journalist an unreasonable burden on newspaper establishments.
The provisions in regard to notice cannot be said to be per se unreasonable. Apart from the recommendations of the Press Commission in that behalf, Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. 22, 2nd Edn., p. 150, para. 249, foot note (e), contains the following statement in regard to the periods of reasonable notice to which persons of various employments have been found entitled:-
Foreign correspondent to The Times, six months period (Lowe v. Walter, (1892) 8 T. L. R. 358).
The Press Commission also recommended that the period of notice for the termination of services should be based on the length of the service rendered and the nature of the appointment. There could be no hard and fast rule as to what the notice period should be. The practice upheld by law or by collective bargaining varies from country to country. In England the practice established by some judicial decisions is that the editor is entitled to a year's notice and an assistant editor to six months' notice. After examining the provisions in regard to notice which are in vogue in England, the Commission also noticed a decision in Bombay (Suit No. 735 of 1951 in the City Civil Court) where the judge concerned held that in the circumstances of the particular case the plaintiff, an assistant editor was entitled to a notice of four months although in normal times, he said, the rule adopted in England of six months should be the correct rule to adopt in India and a longer period of notice was suggested for editors because it was comparatively much more difficult to secure another assignment for a journalist of that seniority and standing in the profession.
The period of six months, in the case of an editor, and three months, in the case of any other working journalists prescribed under s. 3(2) of the impugned Act was therefore not open to any serious objection.
The retrospective operation of this provision in regard to the period between July 14, 1954, and March 12, 1955, was designed to meet the few cases of those employees in the editorial staff of the newspaper establishments who had been retrenched by the managements anticipating the implementation of the recommendations of the Press Commission. There was nothing untoward in that provision also.
When we come however to the provision in regard to the payment of gratuity to working journalists who voluntarily resigned from service from newspaper establishments, we find that this was a provision which was not at all reasonable. A gratuity is a scheme of retirement, benefit and the conditions for its being awarded have been thus laid down in the Labour Court decisions in this country. In the case of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation it was observed at p. 158 :-
the Indian Oxygen & Acetylene Co., Ltd. where it was observed:
Among the benefits which the status of professional journalist may confer (whether it stems from the law or from an agreement) is one of particular importance, since it goes to the very core of the profession. It concerns freedom of information. It is intended to safeguard the journalist's independence, his freedom of thought and his moral rights. It constitutes what has been called in France the "
A similar clause is to be found in Switzerland, in the collective agreement signed on April 1, 1948, between the Geneva Press Association and the Geneva Union of Newspaper Publishers:
Where however an employee voluntarily resigns from service of the employer after a period of only three years, there will be no justification whatever for awarding him a gratuity and any such provision of the type which has been made in s. 5(1)(a)(iii) of the Act would certainly be unreasonable. We hold therefore that this provision imposes an unreasonable restriction on the petitioners' right to carry on business and is liable to be struck down as unconstitutional.
The provision in regard to the hours of work also cannot be considered unreasonable having regard to the nature and quality of the work to be done by working journalists. That leaves the considerations of fixation of rates of wages by the Wage Board. As we have already observed, the Wage Board is constituted of equal numbers of representatives of the newspaper establishments and the working journalists with an independent chairman at its head and principles for the guidance of the Wage Board in the fixation of such rates of wages directing the Wage Board to take into consideration amongst other circumstances the capacity of the industry to pay have also been laid down and it is impossible to say that the provisions in that behalf are in any manner unreasonable. It may be. that the decision of the Wage Board may be arrived at ignoring some of these essential criteria which have been laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act or that the procedure followed by the Wage Board may be contrary to the principles of natural justice. But that would affect the validity of the decision itself and not the constitution of the Wage Board which as we have seen cannot be objected to on this ground.
The further provision contained in s. 17 of the Act in regard to the recovery of money due from an employer empowering the State Government or any such authority appointed in that behalf to issue a certificate for that amount to the collector in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue was also impeached by the petitioners on this ground. That provision, however, relates only to the mode of recovery and not to the imposition of any financial burden as such on the employer. We shall have occasion to deal with this provision in connection with the alleged infringement of the fundamental right under Art. 14 hereafter. We do not subscribe to the view that such a provision infringes the fundamental right of the petitioners to carry on business under Art. 19(1)(g).
This attack of the petitioners on the constitutionality of the impugned Act under Art. 19(1)(g), viz., that it violates the petitioners' fundamental right to carry on business, therefore, fails except in regard to s. 5(1)(a)(iii) thereof which being clearly severable from the rest of the provisions, can be struck down as unconstitutional without invalidating the other parts of the impugned Act. Re. Article 14.
The question as formulated is that the impugned Act selected the working journalists for favoured treatment by giving them a statutory guarantee of gratuity, hours of work and leave which other persons in similar or comparable employment had not got and in providing for the fixation of their salaries without following the normal procedure envisaged in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The following propositions are advanced:-
(b)saddling them with a new burden in regard to a section of their workers in matters of gratuities, compensation, hours of work and wages;
(c)devising a machinery in the form of a Pay Commission for fixing the wages of working journalists;
(d)not prescribing the major criterion of capacity to pay to be taken into consideration;
(e)allowing the Board in fixing the wages to adopt any arbitrary procedure even violating the principle of audi alteram partem;
(f)permitting the Board the discretion to operate the procedure of the Industrial Disputes Act for some newspapers and any arbitrary procedure for others;
(g) making the decision binding only on the employersand not on the employees, and (h) providing for the recovery of money due from the employers in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.
3.The classification made by the impugned Act is arbitrary and unreasonable, in so far as it removes the newspaper employers vis-a-vis working journalists from the general operation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and Act I of 1955.
The principle underlying the enactment of Art. 14 has been the subject-matter of various decisions of this Court and it is only necessary to set out the summary thereof given by Das J. (as be then was) in Budhan Choudhry & Others v. The State of Bihar (I).-
It is in the light of these observations that we shall now proceed to consider whether the impugned Act violates the fundamental right of the petitioners guaranteed under Art. 14 of the Constitution.
We have already set out what the Press Commission had to say in regard to the position of the working journalists in our country. A further passage from the Report may also be quoted in this context:
public opinion and to criticize the wrong done by any individual or organization however high placed. They thus form an essential adjunct to democracy. The profession must, therefore, be manned by men of high intellectual and moral qualities. The journalists are in a sense creative artists and the public rightly or, wrongly, expect from them a general omniscience and a capacity to express opinion on any topic that may arise, under the sun. Apart from the nature of their work the conditions under which that work is to be performed, are peculiar to this profession. Journalists have to work at very high pressure and as most of the papers come out in the morning, the journalists are required to work late in the night and round the clock. The edition must go to press by a particular time and all the news that breaks before that hour has got to find its place in that edition. Journalism thus becomes a highly specialized job and to handle it adequately a person should be well-read, have the ability to size up a situation and to arrive quickly at the correct conclusion, and have the capacity to stand the stress and strain of the work involved. His work cannot be measured, as in other industries, by the quantity of the output, for the quality of work is an essential element in measuring the capacity of the journalists. Moreover, insecurity of tenure is a peculiar feature of this profession. This is not to say that no insecurity exists in other professions but circumstances may arise in connection with profession of journalism which may lead to unemployment in this profession, which would not necessarily have that result in other professions. Their security depends to some extent on the whims and caprices of the proprietors. We have come across cages where a change in the ownership of the paper or a, change in the editorial policy of the paper has-resulted in a considerable change in the editorial staff. In the case of other industries a change in the proprietorship does not normally entail a change in the staff. But as the essential purpose of a newspaper is not only to give news but to educate &. d guide public opinion, a change in the proprietorship or in the editorial policy of the paper may result and in some cases has resulted in a wholesale change of the staff on the editorial side. These circumstances, which are peculiar to journalism must be borne in mind in framing any scheme for improvement of the conditions of working journalists." (para. 512).
These were the considerations which weighed with the Press Commission in recommending the working journalists for special treatment as compared with the other employees of newspaper establishments in the matter of amelioration of their conditions of service We may also in this connection refer to the following passage from the Legislation for Press, Film and Radio in the world to-day (a series of studies published by UNESCO in 1951) (supra) at p. 403:-
The working journalists are thus a group by themselves and could be classified as such apart from the other employees of newspaper establishments and if the Legislature embarked upon a legislation for the purpose of ameliorating their conditions of service there was nothing discriminatory about it. They could be singled out thus for preferential treatment against the other employees of newspaper establishments. A classification of this type could not come within the ban of Art. 14. The only thing which is prohibited under this article is that persons belonging to a particular group or class should not be treated differently as amongst themselves and no such charge could be levelled against this piece of legislation. If this group of working journalists was specially treated in this manner there is no scope for the objection that group had a special legislation enacted for its benefit or that a special machinery was created, for fixing the rates of its wages different from the machinery employed for other workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The payment of retrenchment compensation and gratuities, the regulation of their hours of work and the fixation of the rates of their wages as compared with those of other workmen in the newspaper establishments could also be enacted without any such disability and the machinery for fixing their rates of wages by way of constituting a wage board for the purpose could be similarly devised. There was no industrial dispute as such which had arisen or was apprehended to arise as between the employers and the working journalists in general, though it could have possibly arisen as between the employers in a particular newspaper establishment and its own working Journalists. What was contemplated by the provisions of the impugned Act how. ever, was a general fixation of rates of wages of working journalists which would ameliorate the conditions of their service and the constitution of a wage board for this purpose was one of the established modes of achieving that object. If, therefore, such a machinery was devised for their benefit, there was nothing objectionable in it and there was no discrimination as between the working journalists and the other employees of newspaper establishments in that behalf. The capacity of the industry to pay was certainly to be taken into consideration by the Wage Board, as we have already seen before, and the procedure of the Board also was assimilated to that adopted by an industrial tribunal under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, or was, in any event, to be such as would not be against the principle of audi alteram partem or the principles of natural justice. There was no occasion, if the Wage Board chose to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as the Industrial Tribunal under the Industrial -Disputes Act, 1947, for it to discriminate between one set of newspaper establishments and others. If it in fact assumed unto itself the powers of the Industrial Tribunal it would be bound to follow the procedure prescribed under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and if it were thus to follow the same, no discrimination could ever be made in the manner suggested. The decision of the Wage Board was no doubt made binding only on the employers and the working journalists were at liberty to agitate the question of increase in their wages by raising an industrial dispute in regard thereto. Once the rates of wages were fixed by the Wage Board, it would normally follow 'that they would govern the relationship between the employers and the working journalists, but if liberty was reserved to the working journalists for further increase in their wages under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act there was nothing untoward in that provision and that did not by itself militate against the position that what was done for the benefit of the working journalists was a, measure for the amelioration of their conditions of service as a group by themselves. There could not be any question of discrimination between the employers on the one hand and the working journalists on the other. They were two contesting parties ranged on opposite sides and the fact that one of them was treated in a different manner from the other in the matter of the amelioration of the conditions of service of the weaker party would not necessarily vitiate the decision of the Wage Board. The weaker of the two parties could certainly be treated as a class by itself and the conferment of special benefits in the matter of trying to ameliorate their conditions of service could certainly not be discriminatory.
The provisions contained in s. 17 of the Act in regard to the recovery of money due from the employers in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue also was not discriminatory. In the conflict between the employers and the employees it very often came about that the employers did not implement the measures which had been enacted for the benefit of the employees and the employees were thus hard put to realise and cash those benefits. Even the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, contained a like provision in s. 33C thereof (vide the amendment incorporated therein by Act 36 of 1956) which in its turn was a reproduction of the old s. 25-1 which had been inserted therein by Act 43 of 1953. It may be remembered that if the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which was a general Act, had been made applicable to the working journalists there would have been no quarrel with the same. Much less there could be any quarrel with the introduction of s. 17 into the impugned Act when the aim and object of such provision was to provide the working journalists who were a group by themselves from amongst employees employed in the newspaper establishments with a remedy for the recovery of the monies due to them in the same manner as the workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. We do not see anything discriminatory in making such a provision for the recovery of monies due by the employers to these working journalist's.
Similar is the position in regard to the alleged dis- crimination between -Press industry employers on the one hand and the other industrial employers on the other. The latter would, certainly be governed by the ordinary law regulating industrial relations under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Employers qua the working journalists again would be a class by them-
selves and if a law was enacted to operate as between them in the manner contemplated by the Act that could not be treated as discriminatory. If measures have got to be devised for the amelioration of the conditions of working journalists who are employed in the newspaper establishments, the only way in which it could be done was by directing this piece of legislation against the Press Industry employers in general. Even considering the Act as a measure of social welfare legislation the State could only make a beginning somewhere without embarking on similar legislations in relation to all other industries and if that was done in this case no charge could be levelled against the State that it was discriminating against one industry as compared with the others. The classification could well be founded on geographical basis or be according to objects or occupations or the like. The only question for consideration would be whether there was a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act sought to be challenged. In our opinion, both the conditions of permissible classification were fulfilled in the present case. The classification was based on an intelligible differentia which distinguished the working journalists from other employees of newspaper establishments and that differentia had a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved, viz., the amelioration of the conditions of service of working journalists.
This attack on the constitutionality of the Act also therefore fails.
Re. Article 32:-
Learned Counsel for the petitioners has relied upon a decision of the English Court in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal, Ex parte Shaw where Lord Goddard C. J. observed at p. 718:-
This decision was affirmed by the Court of Appeal (and the decision of the Court of Appeal is reported in Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal, Ex parte Shaw (2) and while doing so Denning L. J. (as he then was) discussed at p. 352, what was it that constituted the record :-
This decision only affirmed that certiorari could lie only if an order made by the inferior tribunal was a speaking order. It did not lay down any duty on the inferior tribunal to set out the reasons for its order but (1) [1951] 1 K. B. 711, 718.
(2) [1952] 1 K. B. 338.
only pointed out that if no reasons were given it would be impossible for the High Court to interfere by exercising its prerogative jurisdiction in the matter of certiorari. A more relevant decision on this point is that of this Court in A. K. Gopalaa v. The State of Madras and, Anr. (1). In that case the provision of law which was impugned amongst others was one which prevented the detenu on pain of prosecution from disclosing to the Court the grounds of his detention communicated to him by the detaining authority. This provision was struck down as ultra vires and void. The reason given by Mahajan J. (as he then was) is stated at p. 243:
time it deprives a detained person from obtaining justice from this Court. In my opinion, therefore, this section when it prohibits the disclosure of the grounds contravenes or abridges the rights given by Part III to a citizen and is ultra vires the powers of Parliament to that extent." It is no doubt true that if there was any provision to be found in the impugned Act which prevented the Wage Board from giving reasons for its decision, it might be construed to mean that the order which was thus made by the Wage Board could not be a speaking order and no writ of certiorari could ever be available to the petitioners in that behalf. It is also true that in that event this Court would be powerless to redress the grievances of the petitioners by issuing a writ in the nature of certiorari and the fundamental right which a citizen has of approaching this Court under Art. 32 of the Constitution would be rendered nugatory.
The position, however, as it obtains in the present case is that there is no such provision to be found in the impugned Act. The impugned Act does not say that the Wage Board shall not give any reason for its decision. It is left to the discretion of the Wage Board whether it should give the reasons for its decision or not. In the absence of any such prohibition it is impossible for us to hold that the fundamental right conferred upon the petitioners under Art. 32 was in any manner whatever sought to be infringed. It may be noted that this point was not at all urged in the petitions which the petitioners had filed in this Court but was taken up only in the course of the arguments by the learned Counsel for the petitioners. It appears to have been a clear after-thought; but we have dealt with the same as it was somewhat -strenuously urged before us in the course of the arguments. We are of the opinion that the Act cannot be challenged as violative of the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 32 of the Constitution.
In regard to the constitutionality of the Act therefore we have come to the conclusion that none of the provisions thereof is violative of the fundamental rights enshrined in Arts. 19(1)(a), 19(1), 14 and/or 32 save the provision contained in s.5(1)(a)(iii) of the Act which is violative of the fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and is therefore unconstitutional and should be struck down. Apart from challenging the vires of the Act dealt with above, the -petitioners contend that the decision of the Wage Board itself is illegal and void because:
The position in law is that the decision would be illegal on any of the following three grounds, viz., (A)Because the Act under which it was made was ultra vires; [ See Mohammad Yasin v. Town Area Committee, Jalalabad & anr. (1) and Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2) ].
(B)Because the decision itself infringed the fundamental rights of the petitioners. [ See Bidi Supply Co.v. Union of India & ors. (3) ].
(C) Because the decision was ultra vires the Act. See Pandit Ram Narain v. State of Uttar Pradesh & ors. (4) ]. The decision of the Wage Board before us cannot be challenged on the grounds that the impugned Act under which the decision is made is ultra vires or that the decision itself infringes the fundamental rights of the petitioners. In the circumstance&, the challenge must be confined only to the third ground, viz., that the decision is ultra vires the Act itself.
Be. (1).
The first ground of attack is based on the circumstance that Shri K. P. Kesava Menon who was originally appointed a member of the Wage Board resigned on or about June 21, 1956, which resignation was accepted by the Central Government by a notification dated July 14, 1956, and by the same notification the Central Government appointed in his place Shri K. M. Cherian and thus reconstituted the Wage Board. There was no provision in the Act for the resignation of any member from his membership or for the filling in of the vacancy which thus arose in the membership of the Board. A provision in this behalf was incorporated only in the Working Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956, which were published by a notification in the Gazette of India Part 11- Section 3 on date July 31, 1956. It was, therefore, contended that such reconstitution of the Board by the appointment of Shri K. M. Cherian in place of Shri K. P. Kesava Menon was unauthorised by the Act as it then stood (1) [1952] S.C.R. 572, 578.
(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1122, 1127.
(3) [1956] S.C.R.267.
(4) [1956] S.C.R. 664.
and the Board which actually published the decision in question was therefore not properly constituted. It is necessary to remember in this connection that s. 8 of the Act empowered the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette to constitute a Wage Board. This power of constituting the Wage Board must be construed having regard to s. 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which says that where by any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of the Act, any power is conferred then, unless a different intention appears that power may be exercised from time to time as occasion arises. If this is the true position there was nothing objectionable in the Central Government reconstituting the Board on the resignation of Shri K. P. Kesava Menon being accepted by it. The Wage Board can in any event be deemed to have been constituted as on that date, viz., July 14, 1956, when all the 5 members within the contemplation of s. 8(2) of the Act were in a position to function. Shri K. P. Kesava Menon had not attended the preliminary meeting of the Board which had been held on May 26, 1956, and the real work of the Wage Board was done after the appointment of Shri K. M. Cherian in his place and stead and it was only after July 14, 1956, that the Wage Board as a whole constituted as it was on that date really functioned as such. The objection urged by the petitioners in this behalf is too technical to make any substantial difference in - regard to the constitution of the Wage Board and its functioning.
Re. 2.
This ground ignores the fact that the Working Journalists Wage Board Rules, 1956, which were published on July 31, 1956, were made by the Central Government in exercise of the power conferred upon it by s. 20 of the Act. That section empowered the Central Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act, in particular to provide for the procedure to be followed by the Board in fixing rates of wages. Rule 8 provided that every question considered at a meeting of the Board was to be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting. In the event of equality of votes the Chairman was to have a casting vote............... This Rule therefore prescribed that the decision of the Board could be reached by a majority and this was the rule which was followed by the Board in arriving at its decision. The rule was framed by the Central Government by virtue of the authority vested in it under s. 20 of the Act and was a piece of delegated legislation which if the rules were laid before both the Houses of Parliament in accordance with s. 20(3) of the Act acquired the force of law. After the publication of these rules, they became a part of the Act itself and any decision thereafter reached by the Wage Board by a majority as prescribed therein was therefore lawful and could not be impeached in the manner suggested. Re. (3).
This ground has reference to the alleged violation by the Wage Board of the principles of natural justice. It is urged that the procedure established under the Industrial Disputes Act was not in terms prescribed for the Wage Board, the Board having been given under s. 11 of the Act the discretion for the purpose of fixing rates of wages to exercise the same powers and follow the same procedure as an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, while adjudicating upon an industrial dispute referred to it. On two distinct occasions, however, the Wage Board definitely expressed itself that it had the powers of an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act' The first occasion was when the questionnaire was issued by the Wage Board and in the questionnaire it mentioned that it had such powers under s. 11 of the Act. The second occasion arose when a number of newspapers and journals to whom the questionnaire was addressed failed to send their replies to the same and the Wage Board at its meeting held on August 17, 1956, reiterated the position and decided to issue a Press Note requesting the newspapers and journals to send their replies as soon as possible, inviting their attention to the fact that the Board had powers of an Industrial Tribunal under the Act and if newspapers failed to send their replies, the Board would be compelled to take further steps in the matter. This is clearly indicative of the fact that the Wage Board did seek to exercise the powers under the terms of s. 11 of the Act. Even though, the exercise of such powers was discretionary with the Board, the, Board itself assumed these powers and assimilated its ,position to that of an Industrial Tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. If, then, it assumed those powers, it only followed that it was also bound to follow the procedure which an Industrial Tribunal so constituted was bound to follow.
It is further urged that in the whole of the questionnaire which was addressed by the Wage Board to the newspaper establishments, there was no concrete proposal which was submitted by the Wage Board to them for their consideration. The only question which was addressed in this behalf was Question No. 4 in Part "A" which asked the newspaper establishments whether the basic minimum wage, dearness allowance and metropolitan allowance suggested by the Press Commission were acceptable to them and if not, what variations would they suggest and why. The question as framed would not necessarily focus the attention of the newspaper establishments to any proposal except the one which was the subject-matter of that question, viz., the
-proposal of the Press Commission in that behalf and the newspaper establishments to whom the questionnaire was addressed would certainly not have before them any indication at all as to what was the wage structure which was going to be adopted by the Wage Board. Even though the Wage Board came to the conclusion, as a result of its having collected the requisite data and gathered sufficient materials, after receiving the answers to the questionnaire and examining the witnesses, that certain wage structure was a proper one in its opinion, it was necessary for the Wage Board to communicate the proposals in that regard to the various newspaper establishments concerned -and invite them to make their -representations, if any, within a specified period. It was only after such representations were received from the interested parties that the Wage Board should have finalized its proposals and published its decision. If this procedure had been adopted the decision of the Wage Board could not have been challenged on the score of its being contrary to the principles of natural justice.
It would have been no doubt more prudent for the Wage Board to have followed the procedure outlined above. The ground No. 8 is, in our opinion, sufficiently determinative of the question as to the ultra vires character of the Wage Board decision and in view of the 'conclusion reached by us in regard to the same, we refrain from expressing any opinion on this ground of attack urged by the Petitioners. Re. 4.
This ground is urged because no reasons were given by the Wage Board for its decision. As a matter of fact, the Wage Board at its meeting dated April 22, 1957, agreed that reasons need not be given for each of the decisions and it was only sufficient to record the same and accordingly it did not give any reasons for the decision which it published. In the absence of any such reasons, however, it was difficult to divine what considerations, if any, prevailed with the Wage Board in arriving at its decision on the various points involved therein. It was no doubt not incumbent on the Wage Board to give any reasons for its decision. The Act made no provision in this behalf and the Board was perfectly within its rights if it chose not to give any reasons for its decision. Prudence should, however, have dictated that it gave reasons for the decision which it ultimately reached because if it had done so, we would have been spared, the necessity of trying to probe into its mind and find out whether any particular circumstance received due consideration at its hands in arriving at its decision. The fact that no reasons are thus given, however, would not vitiate the decision in any manner and we may at once say that even though no reasons are given in the form of a regular judgment, we have sufficient indication of the Chairman's mind in the note which he made on April 30, 1956, which is a contemporaneous record ex- plaining the reasons for the decision of the majority.
This note of the Chairman is very revealing and throws considerable light on the question whether particular circumstances were at all taken into consideration by the Wage Board before it arrived at its decision. Re. 5.
This ground concerns the classification of newspaper establishments on the basis of gross revenue. Such classification was challenged as illegal and unauthorised by the Act. The Act certainly says nothing about classification and could not be expected to do so. What the Act authorised it to do was to fix the rates of wages for working journalists having regard to the principles laid down in s. 9(1) of the Act. In fixing the wage structure the Wage Board constituted under the Act was perfectly at liberty if it thought necessary to classify the newspaper establishments in any manner it thought proper provided of course that such classification was not irrational. If the newspaper establishments all over the country had got to be considered in regard to fixing of rates of wages of working journalists employed therein it was inevitable that some sort of classification should be made having regard to the size and capacity of newspaper establishments. Various criteria could be adopted for the purpose of such classi- fication, viz., circulation of the newspaper, advertisement revenue, gross revenue, capital invested in the business, etc., etc. Even though the proportion of advertisement revenue to the gross revenue of newspaper establishments may be a relevant consideration for the purpose of classification, we are not, prepared to say that the Wage Board was not justified in adopting this mode of classification on the basis of gross revenue. It was perfectly within its competence to do so and if it adopted that as the proper basis for classification it cannot be said that the basis which it adopted was radically wrong or was such as to vitiate its decision. If the need for classification is accepted, as it should be, having regard to the various sizes and capacities of newspaper establishments all over the country it was certainly necessary to adopt a workable test for such classification and if the Wage Board had adopted classification on the basis of the gross revenue, we do not see any reason why that decision of its was in any manner whatever unwarranted.
It may be remembered in this connection that the Newspaper Industry Inquiry Committee in U. P. had suggested in its report dated March 31,1949, classification of newspapers in the manner following:-
The classification on the basis of gross revenue was attacked by the petitioners on the ground that in the gross revenue which is earned by the newspaper establishments, advertisement revenue ordinarily forms a large bulk of such revenue and the revenue earned by circulation of newspapers forms more often than not a small part of the same, though in regard to language newspapers the position may be some- what different. Unless, therefore, the proportion of advertisement revenue in the gross revenue of newspaper establishments were taken into consideration, it would not be possible to form a correct estimate of the financial status of that newspaper establishment with a view to its classification. The petitioners on the other hand suggested that the profit and loss of the newspaper establishments should be adopted as the proper test and if that were adopted a different picture altogether would be drawn. The balancesheets and the profit and loss accounts of the several newspaper establishments would require to be considered and it was contended that even if the gross revenue of a particlar newspaper establishment were so large as to justify its inclusion on the basis of gross revenue in Class " A " or Class " B " it might be working at a loss and its classification as such would not be justified. We have already referred in the earlier part of this judgment to the unsatisfactory nature of the profit and loss test. Even though the profit and loss accounts and the balance-sheets of the several limited companies may have been audited by their auditors and may also have been accepted by the Income-tax authorities, they would not afford a satisfactory basis for classification of these newspaper establishments for the reasons already set out above.
As a matter of fact, even before us attempts were made by the respondent, the Indian Federation of Working Journalists to demonstrate that the profit and loss accounts and the balance-sheets of several petitioners were manipulated and unreliable. We are not called upon to decide whether the profit and loss test is one which should be accepted; it is sufficient for our purpose to say that if such a test was not accepted by the Wage Board, the Wage Board was certainly far from wrong in doing so.
Re. 6.
This ground relates to grouping into chains or multiple units and the ground of attack is that such grouping is unauthorised by the Act.
The short answer to this contention is that if such grouping into chains or multiple units was justified having regard to the conditions of the newspaper industry in the country, there was nothing in the Act which militated against such grouping. The Wage Board was authorised to fix the wage structure for working journalists who were employed in various newspaper establishments all over the country. If the chains or multiple units existed in the country the newspaper establishments which formed' such chains or multiple units were well within the purview of the inquiry before the Wage Board and if the Wage Board thus chose to group them together in that manner such grouping by itself could not be open to attack. The Act could not have expressly authorized the Wage Board to adopt such grouping. It was up to the Wage Board to consider whether such grouping was justified under the circumstances or not and unless we find something in the Act which prohibits the Wage Board from doing so, we would not deem any such grouping as unauthorised. The real difficulty, however, in the matter of grouping into chains or multiple units arises in connection with the capacity of the industry to pay, a topic which we shall discuss hereafter while discussing the ground in connection therewith.
Re. 7.
This ground is based on the definition of " newspaper establishment" found in Sec. 2 (d) of the Act. " Newspaper establishment" is there defined as " an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not, for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate." So, the contention put forward is that " an establishment " can only mean " an establishment " and not a group of them, even though such an individual establishment may produce or publish one or more newspapers. The definition may comprise within its scope chains or multiple units, but even so, the establishment should be one individual establishment producing or publishing a chain of newspapers or multiple units of newspapers. If such chains or multiple units were, though belonging to some person or body of persons whether incorporated or not, produced or published by separate newspaper establishments, common control would not render. the constitution of several newspaper establishments as one establishment for the purpose of this definition, they would none the less be separate newspaper establishments though under common control.
Reliance was placed in support of this contention on a decision of the Calcutta High Court in Pravat Kumar v. W. T. C. Parker (1), where the expression which came up for construction before the Court was " employed in an industrial establishment " and it was observed that:-
A similar interpretation was put on the expression industrial establishment " by the Madras High Court in S. R. V. Service Ltd. v. State of Madras (2), where it was observed at p. 12:-
These decisions lend support to the contention that a newspaper establishment like an industrial establishment should be located in one place, even though it may be carrying on its activities of production or publication of more newspapers than one. If these activities are carried on in different places, e. g., in different towns or cities of different States, the newspaper establishments producing or publishing such newspapers cannot be treated as one individual establishment but should be treated as separate newspaper establishments for the purpose of working out the relations between themselves and their employees. There would be no justification for including these different newspaper establishments into. one chain or multiple unit and treating them, as if they were one (1) A. I. R. 1950 Cal. 116, 118, para. 20.
(2) A. I. R. 1956 Mad. 115, 122.
newspaper establishment. Here again, the petitioners are faced with this difficulty that there is nothing in the Act to prohibit such a grouping. If a classification on the basis of gross revenue could be legitimately adopted by the Wage Board then the grouping into chains or multiple units could also be made by it. There is nothing in the Act to prohibit the treating of several newspaper establishments producing or publishing one or more newspapers though in different parts of the country as one newspaper establishment for the purpose of fixing the rates of wages. It would not be illegitimate to expect the same standard of employment and conditions of service in several newspaper establishments under the control of any person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not; for an employer to think of employing one set of persons on higher scales of wages and another set of workers on lower scales of wages would by itself be iniquitous, though it would be quite legitimate to expect the difference in scales having regard to the quality of the work required to be done, the conditions of labour in different regions of the country, the standard of living in those regions and other cognate factors.
All these considerations would necessarily have to be borne in mind by the Wage Board in arriving at its decision in regard to the wage structure though the relative importance to be attached to one circumstance or the other may vary in accordance with the conditions in different areas or regions where the newspaper establishments are located. Re. 8.
We now come to the most important ground, viz., that the decision of the Wage Board has not taken into consideration the capacity to pay of any particular newspaper establishment. As we have already seen, the fixings: of rates of wages by the Wage Board did not prescribe whether the wages which were to be fixed were minimum wages, fair wages, or living, wages and it was left to the discretion of the Wage Board to determine the same. The principles for its guidance were, However, laid down and they prescribed the circumstances which were to be taken into consideration before such determination was made by the Wage Board. One of the essential considerations was the capacity of the industry to pay and that was comprised within the category " the circumstances relating to newspaper industry in different regions of the country ". It remains to consider, however, whether the Wage Board really understood this category in that sense and in fact applied its mind to it. At its preliminary meeting held on May 26, 1956, the Board set up a SubCommittee to draft a questionnaire to be issued to the various journals and organisations concerned, with a view to eliciting factual data and other relevant information required for the fixation of wages. The Sub-committee was requested to bear in mind the need inter alia for 'proper classification of the country into different areas on the basis of certain criteria like population, cost of living, etc. This was the only reference to this requirement of s. 9(1) and there was no reference herein to the capacity of the industry to pay which we have held was comprised therein. The only question in the questionnaire as finally framed which had any reference to this criterion was Question No. 7 in Part " A " under the heading " Special Circumstances " and that question was: " Are there in your regions any special conditions in respect of the newspaper industry which affect the fixing of rates of wages of working journalists ? If so, specify the conditions and indicate how they affect the question of wages." But here also it is difficult to find that the capacity of the industry to pay was really sought to be included in these special conditions. The Wage Board no doubt asked for detailed accounts of newspaper establishments and also required information which would help it in the proper evaluation of the nature and quality of work of various categories of working journalists, but the capacity of the industry to pay which was one of the essential considerations was nowhere prominently brought in issue and no information on that point was sought from the various newspaper establishments to whom the questionnaire was going to be addressed. The answers to Question No. 7 as summarized by the Wage Board no doubt referred in some cases to the capacity of the industry to pay but that was brought in by the newspaper establishments themselves who answered the question in an incidental manner and could not be said to be prominent in the minds of the parties concerned. It is pertinent to observe that even before the Press Commission the figures had disclosed that out of 127 newspapers 68 had been running into loss and 59 with profits and there was an overall profit of about 1% on a capital investment of seven crores. The -profit and loss accounts and the balance sheets of the various companies owning or controlling newspaper establishments were also submitted before the Wage Board but they had so far as they went a very sorry tale to tell. The profit and loss statements for the year 1954-55 revealed that while 43 of them showed profits 40 had incurred losses. Though no scientific conclusion could be drawn from this statement it showed beyond doubt that the condition of the newspaper industry as a whole could not be considered satisfactory. Under these circumstances, it was all the more incumbent upon the Wage Board even though it discounted these profit and loss statements as not necessarily reflecting the true financial position of these newspaper establishments, to consider the question of the capacity of the industry to pay with greater vigilance.
There was again another difficulty which faced the Wage Board in that behalf and it was that out of 5,705 newspapers to whom the questionnaire was addressed only 312 or at best 325 had responded and the Wage Board was in the dark as to what was the position in regard to other newspaper establishments. As a matter of fact, the chairman in his note dated April 30, 1957, himself pointed out that the Wage Board had no data before it of all the newspapers and where it had, that was in many cases not satisfactory. This aspect was again emphasized by him in his note when he reiterated that the data available to the Wage Board had not been as complete as it would have wished them to be and therefore recommended in the end the establishment of a standing administrative machinery which would collect from all newspaper establishments in the country on a systematic basis detailed information and data such as those on employment, wage rates and earnings, financial condition of papers, figures of circulation, etc., which may be required for the assessment of the effects of the decision of the Wage Board at the time of the review. The Wage Board, in fact, groped in the dark in the absence of sufficient data and information which would enable it to come to a proper conclusion in regard to the wage structure which it was to determine. In the absence of such data and materials the Board was not in a position to work out what would be the impact of its proposals on the capacity of the industry to pay as a whole or even region-wise and the chairman in his note stated that it was difficult for the Board at that stage to work out with any degree of precision, the economic and other effects of its decision on the newspaper industry as a whole. Even with regard to the impact of these proposals on individual newspaper establishments the chairman stated that the future of the Indian language newspapers was bright, having regard to increasing literacy and the growth of political con- sciousness of the reading public, and by rational management there was great scope for increasing the income of newspapers and even though there was no possibility of any adjustment which might satisfy all persons interested, it was hoped that no newspaper would be forced to close down as a result of its decision; but that if there was a good paper and it deserved to exist, the Government and the public would help it to continue. This was again a note of optimism which does not appear to have been justified by any evidence on the record.
Even though, the Wage Board classified the newspaper establishments into 5 classes from " A " to " E " on the basis of their gross revenue the proportion of the advertisement revenue to the gross revenue does not appear to have been taken into consideration nor was the essential difference which subsisted between the circulation and the paying capacity of the language newspapers as compared with newspapers in the English language taken into account. If this had been done, the basis of gross revenue which the Wage Board adopted would have been modified in several respects. The grouping of the newspapers into chains or multiple units implied that the weaker units in those groups were to be treated as on a par with the stronger units and it was stated that the loss in the weaker units would be more than compensated by the profits in the more prosperous units. The impact of these proposals on groups of newspapers was only defended on principle without taking into consideration the result which they would have on the working of the weaker units. Here also the Chairman expressed the opinion that the Board was conscious that as a result of its decision, some of the journalists in the weaker units of the same group or chain may get much more than those working in its highest income units. He however stated that if the principle was good and scientific, the inevitable result of its application should be judged from the stand-point of Indian Journalism as a whole and not the burden it casts on a particular establishment. It is clear therefore, that this principle which found favour with the Wage Board was sought to be worked out without taking into consideration the burden which it would impose upon the weaker units of a particular newspaper establishment.
The representatives of the employers objected to the fixation of scales of wages on the plea that fixation of rates of wages did not include the fixation of scales of wages. This contention was negatived by the representatives of the employees as also by the Chairman and the Wage Board by its majority decision accepted the position that it could, while fixing the rates of wages also fix the scales of wages. The Press Commission itself had merely suggested a basic minimum wage for the consideration of the parties concerned but had suggested that so far as the scales of wages were concerned they were to be settled by collective bargaining or by adjudication. Even though the Wage Board took upon itself the burden of fixing scales of wages as really comprised within the terms of their reference, it was incumbent upon it to consider what the impact of the scales of wages fixed by it would be on the capacity of the industry to pay. There is nothing on the record to suggest that both as regards the rates of wages and the scales of wages which it determined the Wage Board ever took into account as to what the impact of its decision would be on the capacity of the industry to pay either as a whole or region-wise.
There is, however, a further difficulty in upholding the decision of the Wage Board in this behalf and it is this that even as regards the fixation of the rates of wages of working journalists the Wage Board does not seem to have taken into account the other provisions of the Act which conferred upon the working journalists the benefits of retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave. These provisions were bound to have their impact on the paying capacity of the newspaper establishments and if these had been borne in mind by the Wage Board it is highly likely that the rates of wages including the scales of wages as finally determined might have been on a lesser scale than what one finds in its decision.
This difficulty becomes all the more formidable when one considers that the working journalists only constituted at best one-fifth of the total staff employed in the various establishments. The rest of the 80% comprised persons who may otherwise be described as factory workers who would be able to ameliorate their conditions of service by having resort to the machinery under the Industrial Disputes Act. If the conditions of service of the working journalists were to be improved by the Wage Board the other employees of newspaper establishments were bound to be restive add they would certainly, at the very earliest opportunity raise industrial disputes with a view to the betterment of their conditions of service. Even though the Industrial Courts established under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, might not give them relief commensurate with the relief which the Wage Board gave to the working journalists, there was bound to be an improvement, in their conditions of service which the Industrial Court would certainly determine having regard to the benefits which the working journalists enjoyed and this would indeed impose an additional financial burden on the newspaper establishments which would substantially affect their capacity to pay. This consideration also was necessarily to be borne in mind by the Wage Board in arriving at its final decision and one (foes not find anything on the record which shows that it was actually taken into consideration by the Wage Board. The retrospective operation of the. decision of the Wage Board was also calculated to impose a financial burden on the newspaper establishments. Even though this may be a minor consideration as compared with the other considerations above referred to, it was none the less a circumstance which the Wage Board ought to have considered in arriving at its decision in regard to the fixing of rates of wages.
The financial burden which was imposed by the decision of the Wage Board was very vividly depicted in the statements furnished to us on behalf of the petitioners in the course of the hearing before us. These statements showed that the wage bill of these newspaper establishments was going to be considerably increased, that the retrospective operation of the decision was going to knock off a considerable sum from their reserves and that the burden imposed upon the newspaper establishments by the joint impact of the provisions of the Act in regard. to retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, hours of work and leave as well as the decision of the Wage Board in regard to the fixing of rates of wages and the scales of wages would be such as would cripple the resources of the newspaper establishments, if not necessarily lead to their complete extinction. The statements also showed what extra burden was imposed upon the newspaper establishments, if they wanted to discharge the working journalists from their employ which burden was all the greater, if per chance, the newspaper establishments, even though reluctantly came to a decision that it was worth their while to close down their business rather than continue the same with all these financial burdens imposed upon them. These figures have been given by us in the earlier part of our judgment and we need not repeat the same. The conclusion, however, is inescapable that the decision of the Wage Board imposed a very heavy financial burden on the newspaper establishments, which burden was augmented by the classification on the basis of gross-revenue, fixation of scales of wages, provisions as, regards the hours of work and leave, grouping of newspapers into chains or multiple units and retrospective operation given to the decision of the Wage Board as therein mentioned.
If these proposals had been circulated, before being finalized, by the Wage Board to the various newspaper establishments so that these newspaper establishments could, if they so desired, submit their opinions thereupon and their representations, if any, in regard to the same to the Wage Board for its consideration and if the Wage Board had after receiving such opinions and representations from the newspaper establishments concerned finalised it decision, this attack on the ground of the Wage Board not having taken into consideration the capacity of the industry to pay as a whole or region-wise would have lost much of its force. The Wage Board, however, did nothing of the type. Proposals were exchanged between the representatives of the employers and the representatives of the employees. The discussion that the chairman had with each set of representatives did not bear any fruit and the chairman himself by way of mediation, as it were, submitted to them his own proposals presumably having regard to the different points of view which had been expressed by both these parties. The decision in regard to the scales of wages, was, as we have seen before, a majority decision which was not endorsed by the representatives of the employers. The proposals of the chairman also were not acceptable to the representatives of the employers but the representatives of the employees accepted them and they thus became the majority decision of the Wage Board. The ultimate decision of the chairman on those points does not appear to have been the result of any consideration of the capacity of the industry to pay as a whole or region-wise but reflects a compromise which he brought about between the diverse views but which also was generally accepted only by the representatives of the employees and not the representatives of the employers. Nowhere can we find in the instant case any genuine consideration of the capacity of the industry to pay either as a whole or region-wise. We are supported in this conclusion by the observations of the chairman himself in the note which he made simultaneously with the publication of the decision on April 30, 1957, that it was difficult for the Wage Board at that stage to work out with any degree of precision, the economic and other effects of the decision on the newspaper industry as a whole.
An attempt was made on behalf of the respondents in the course of the hearing before us to shew that by the conversion of the currency into naye pyse and the newspapers charging to the public higher price by reason of such conversion, the income of several newspapers had appreciably increased. These figures were, however, controverter on behalf of the petitioners and it was pointed out that whatever increase in the revenue was brought about by reason of this conversion of price into naye pyse was more than offset by the fall in circulation, ever rising price of newsprint and the higher commission, etc., which was payable by the newspaper establishments to their commission agents. The figures as worked out need not be described here in detail; but we are satisfied that the conversion of the price into naye pyse had certainly not the effect which was urged and did not add to the paying capacity of the newspaper establishments.
The very fact that the Wage Board thought it necessary to express a pious hope that if there is a good paper and it deserves to exist, the Government and the public will help it to continue, and also desired the interests which it felt had been hit hard by its decision not to pass judgment in haste, but to watch, the effects of its decision in actual working with patience for a period of 3 to 5 years, shows that, the Wage Board was not sure of its own ground and was publishing its decision merely by way of an experiment. The chairman urged upon the Government of India the desirability of creating immediately a standing administrative machinery which could also combine in itself the functions of implementing and administering its decision and that of preparing the ground for the review and revision envisaged after 3 to 5 years. This was again a, pious hope indulged in by the Wage Board. It was not incumbent on the Government to fulfill that expectation and there was no knowing whether the Government would ever review or revise the decision of the Wage Board at the expiration of such period.
We have carefully examined all the proceedings of the Wage Board and the different tables and statements prepared by them. Neither in the proceedings nor in any of the tables do we see -satisfactory evidence to show that the capacity of the industry to pay was examined by the Board in fixing the wage structure. As we have already observed, it was no doubt open to the Board not to attach undue importance to the statements of profit and loss accounts submitted by various newspaper establishments, but, since these statements prima facie show that the trade was not making profit it was all the more necessary for the Board to satisfy itself that the different classes of the newspaper establishments would be able to bear the burden imposed by the wage structure which the Board had decided to fix. Industrial adjudication is familiar with the method which is usually adopted to determine the capacity of the employer to pay the burden sought to be imposed on him.. If the industry is divided into different classes it may not be necessary to consider the capacity of each individual unit to pay but it would certainly be necessary to consider the capacity of the respective classes to-bear the burden imposed on them. A cross-section of these respective classes may have to be taken for careful examination and all relevant factors may have to be borne in mind in deciding what burden the class considered as a whole can bear. If possible, an attempt can also be made, and is often made, to project the burden of the wage structure into two or three succeeding years and determine how it affects the financial position of the employer. The whole of the record before the Board including the chairman's note gives no indication at all that an attempt was made by the Board to consider the capacity of the industry to pay in this manner. Indeed, the proceedings show that the demands made by the representatives of the employees and the concessions made by the employers' representatives were taken as rival contentions and the Chairman did his best to arrive at his final decision on the usual basis of give and take. In adopting this course, all the members of the Board seem to have lost sight of the fact that the essential prerequisite of deciding the wage structure was to consider the capacity of the industry to pay and this, in our opinion, introduces a fatal infirmity in the decision of the Board. If we had been satisfied that the Board had considered this aspect of the matter, we would naturally have been reluctant to accept any challenge to the validity of the decision on the ground that the capacity to pay had not been properly considered. After all, in cases of this kind where special Boards are set up to frame wage structures, this Court would normally refuse to constitute itself into a court of appeal on questions of fact; but, in the present case, an essential condition for the fixation of wage structure has been completely ignored and so there is no escape from the conclusion that the Board has contravened the mandatory requirement of s. 9 and in consequence its decision is ultra vires the Act itself.
Re. 9.
This ground, viz., that the Board had no authority to render a decision which was retrospective in operation in also untenable. The Wage Board certainly had the jurisdiction and authority to pronounce a decision which could be retrospective in effect from the date of its appointment and there was no legal flaw in the Wage Board prescribing that its decision should be retrospective in operation in the manner indicated by it. The retrospectivity may have its repercussions on the capacity of the industry to pay and we need not say anything more in regard to the same. We have already dealt with it above.
Be. 10.
Ground No. 10 talks of the authority of the Wage Board to fix scales of pay for a period of 3 years, subject to review by the Government by appointing another Wage Board at the end of that period. We are not concerned with such fixation of the period for the' simple reason that the Board has not in terms done so. The only authority which it had was to fix the rates of wages and submit its decision in respect thereof to the Government. Any pious hope expressed that the decision should be subject to review or revision by the Government by appointment of another Wage Board after the lapse of 3 or 5 years was not a part of its decision and we need not pause to consider the effect of such fixation of the period, if any, because it has in fact not been done. Re. 11.
The last ground talks of the Wage Board being handicapped for want of Cost of Living Index. This ground also cannot avail the petitioners for the simple reason that the decision of the Wage Board itself referred in Clause 24 thereof to the all India cost of living index number published by the Labour Bureau of the Government of India 0 Base 1944: 100 and fixed the dearness allowance in relation to the same. These statistics were available to the Wage Board and it cannot be said that the Wage Board was in any manner whatever handicapped in that respect. On a consideration of all the grounds of attack thus levelled against the validity and the binding nature of the decision of the Wage Board, we have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the said decision cannot be sustained and must be set aside.
The petitions will, therefore, be allowed and the petitioners will be entitled to an order declaring that s. 5 (1) (a) (iii) of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, is ultra vires the Constitution of India and that the decision of the Wage Board dated April 30, 1957, is illegal and void. As regards the costs, in view of the fact that the petioners have failed in most of their contentions in regard to the constitutionality of the Act, the fairest, order would be that each party should bear and pay its own costs of these petitions.
Civil Appeals Nos. 699-703 of 1957.
These Civil Appeals are directed against the decision of the Wage Board and seek to set aside the same as destroying the very existence of the newspaper establishments concerned and infringing their fundamental rights. Special leave under Art. 136 of the Constitution was granted by this Court in respect of each of them, subject to the question of maintainability of the appeals being open to be urged. These appeals are also covered by the judgment just delivered by us in Petition No. 91 of 1957 & Ors., and the appellants would be entitled to a declaration in each one of them that the decision of the Wage Board is ultra vires the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, and therefore void and inoperative.
In view of the conclusion thus reached, we feel it unnecessary to consider whether the appeals would be maintainable under Art. 136 of the Constitution. The appellants having substantially succeeded in their respective petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution, the question has now become purely academic and we need not spend any time over the same.
The result therefore is that there will be no orders save that all the parties thereto shall bear and pay their own costs thereof.
Petitions allowed.
Appeals disposed of accordingly.	Total Judgement
