Shivji Nathubhai vs The Union Of India & Others on 19 January, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 428 of 1959. Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 25, 1959, of the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench) at Delhi in Letters Patent Appeal No. 47-D of 1955, arising out of the judgment and order dated November 28, 1955 of the said High Court in Writ Petition No. 306-D of 1954.
2. G. S. Pathak, S. S. Shukla and Mrs. E. Udayaratnam, for respondent No. 3.	Issue
1960. January 19. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO J.-This appeal upon a certificate granted by the Punjab High Court raises the question whether an order of the Central Government under r. 54 of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, (hereinafter called the Rules) framed under s. 6 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, No. 53 of 1941, (hereinafter called the Act) is quasi- judicial or administrative. The brief facts necessary for this purpose are these. The appellant was granted a mining lease by the then Ruler of Gangpur State on December 30, 1947, shortly before the merger of that State with the State of Orissa on January 1, 1948. This lease was annulled on June 29, 1949. Thereafter the appellant was granted certificates of approval in respect of prospecting licences and mining leases. Eventually, the appellant applied on December 19, 1949, for mining leases for manganese in respect of five areas in the district of Sundergarh (Orissa). He was asked on July 4, 1950, to submit a separate application for each area which he did on July 27, 1950. Some defects were pointed out in these applications and therefore the appellant submitted fresh applications on September 6, 1950, after removing the defects. In the meantime, the third respondent also made applications for mining leases for manganese for the same area on July 10, 1950. These applications were not accompanied by the deposit required under r. 29 of the Rules. Consequently, the third respondent was asked on July 24, 1950, to deposit a sum of Rs. 500, which it did on August 3, 1950. It was then found that the third respondent's applications were defective. It was therefore asked on September 5, 1950, to send a separate application in the prescribed form for each block and thereupon it submitted fresh applications on September 6, 1950. Eventually, on December 22, 1952, the State of Orissa granted the mining leases of the five areas to the appellant taking into account r. 32 of the Rules, which prescribed priority. It was held that the appellant's applications were prior and therefore the leases were granted to him. Thereafter on April 21, 1953, possession of the areas leased was delivered to the appellant. It seems, however, that the third respondent had applied for review to the Central Government under r. 52 of the Rules. This review application was allowed by the Central Government on January 28, 1954, and the Government of Orissa was directed to grant a mining lease to the third respondent with respect to two out of the five areas.
The appellant's complaint is that he came to know in February, 1954, that the third respondent had applied to the Central Government under r. 52 for review. He thereupon addressed a letter to the Central Government praying that he might be given a hearing before any order was passed on the review application. He was, however, informed on July 5, 1955, by the Government of Orissa of the order passed by the Central Government on January 28, 1954, by which the lease granted to him by the State of Orissa with respect to two areas was cancelled. Consequently, he made an application under Art. 226 of the Constitution to the Punjab High Court praying for quashing the order of January 28, 1954, on the ground that it was a quasi-judicial order and the rules of natural justice had not been followed inasmuch as he had not been given a hearing before the review application was allowed by the Central Government, thus affecting his rights to the -lease granted by the State of Orissa. The writ petition was heard by a learned Single Judge of the High Court and it was held that the order was not a quasi-judicial order but merely an administrative one and that there being no lis, the appellant was not entitled to a hearing. In the result, the writ petition failed. The appellant went up in Letters Patent Appeal to a Division Bench of the High Court, which upheld the order of the learned Single Judge. The appellant then applied for a certificate to permit him to appeal to this Court which was granted; and that is how the matter has come up before us.	Facts
created as soon as a person aggrieved by an order is given the right to go up in review against another person in whose favour the order has been passed by the State Government show that the proceeding before the Central Government at any rate at the stage Of review is quasi-judicial to which rules of natural justice apply.	PetArg
N. C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant. C. K. Daphtary. Solicitor-General of India, R. Gapapathy Iyer, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for respondents Nos. 1 &
This definition insists on three requisites each of which must be fulfilled in order that the act of the body may be a quasi-judicial act, namely, that the body of persons (1) must have legal authority, (2) to determine questions affecting the rights of subjects, and (3) must have the duty to act judicially. After analysing the various cases, Das J. (as he then was) laid down the following principles as deducible therefrom in Kushaldas S. Advani's case (1)at p. 725 :-	Precedent
Mr. G. S. Pathak appearing for the third respondent on the other hand contends that the view taken by the High Court is correct and that the order of January 28, 1954, is a mere administrative order and therefore it was not necessary for the Central Government to hear either party before passing that order. He points out that the minerals, for mining which the lease is granted under the Rules, are the property of the State. No person applying for a mining lease of such minerals has any right to the grant of the lease. According to him, the right will only arise after the lease has been granted by the State Government and the review application, if any, has been decided by the Central Government. He submits that even under r. 32, which deals with priority the State Government is not bound to grant the lease to the person who applies first and it can for any special reason and with the prior approval of the Central Government grant it to a person who applies later. His contention further is that as at the earlier stage when the grant is made by the State Government the order granting the lease is a mere administrative order-as it must be in these circumstances (he asserts)-, the order passed on review by the Central Government must also partake of the same nature. In order to decide between these rival contentions it is useful to refer to rules 52 to 55 which fall for consideration in this case. These are the rules as they existed up to 1953. Since then we are told there have been amendments and even the Act has been replaced by the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957. We are, however, not concerned with the Rules as modified after January 1954 or with the Act of 1957. Rule 52 inter alia provides that -any person aggrieved by an order of the State Government refusing to grant a mining lease may within two months of the date of such order apply to the Central Government for reviewing the same. Rule 53 prescribes a fee. Rule 54 may be quoted in extenso, " Upon receipt of such application, the Central Government may, if it thinks fit, call for the relevant records and other information from the State Government and after considering any explanation that may be offered by the State Government, cancel the order of the State Government or revise it in such manner as the Central Government may deem just and proper. "	Section
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 428 of 1959. Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 25, 1959, of the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench) at Delhi in Letters Patent Appeal No. 47-D of 1955, arising out of the judgment and order dated November 28, 1955 of the said High Court in Writ Petition No. 306-D of 1954.
N. C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant. C. K. Daphtary. Solicitor-General of India, R. Gapapathy Iyer, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for respondents Nos. 1 &
2. G. S. Pathak, S. S. Shukla and Mrs. E. Udayaratnam, for respondent No. 3.
1960. January 19. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO J.-This appeal upon a certificate granted by the Punjab High Court raises the question whether an order of the Central Government under r. 54 of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, (hereinafter called the Rules) framed under s. 6 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, No. 53 of 1941, (hereinafter called the Act) is quasi- judicial or administrative. The brief facts necessary for this purpose are these. The appellant was granted a mining lease by the then Ruler of Gangpur State on December 30, 1947, shortly before the merger of that State with the State of Orissa on January 1, 1948. This lease was annulled on June 29, 1949. Thereafter the appellant was granted certificates of approval in respect of prospecting licences and mining leases. Eventually, the appellant applied on December 19, 1949, for mining leases for manganese in respect of five areas in the district of Sundergarh (Orissa). He was asked on July 4, 1950, to submit a separate application for each area which he did on July 27, 1950. Some defects were pointed out in these applications and therefore the appellant submitted fresh applications on September 6, 1950, after removing the defects. In the meantime, the third respondent also made applications for mining leases for manganese for the same area on July 10, 1950. These applications were not accompanied by the deposit required under r. 29 of the Rules. Consequently, the third respondent was asked on July 24, 1950, to deposit a sum of Rs. 500, which it did on August 3, 1950. It was then found that the third respondent's applications were defective. It was therefore asked on September 5, 1950, to send a separate application in the prescribed form for each block and thereupon it submitted fresh applications on September 6, 1950. Eventually, on December 22, 1952, the State of Orissa granted the mining leases of the five areas to the appellant taking into account r. 32 of the Rules, which prescribed priority. It was held that the appellant's applications were prior and therefore the leases were granted to him. Thereafter on April 21, 1953, possession of the areas leased was delivered to the appellant. It seems, however, that the third respondent had applied for review to the Central Government under r. 52 of the Rules. This review application was allowed by the Central Government on January 28, 1954, and the Government of Orissa was directed to grant a mining lease to the third respondent with respect to two out of the five areas.
The appellant's complaint is that he came to know in February, 1954, that the third respondent had applied to the Central Government under r. 52 for review. He thereupon addressed a letter to the Central Government praying that he might be given a hearing before any order was passed on the review application. He was, however, informed on July 5, 1955, by the Government of Orissa of the order passed by the Central Government on January 28, 1954, by which the lease granted to him by the State of Orissa with respect to two areas was cancelled. Consequently, he made an application under Art. 226 of the Constitution to the Punjab High Court praying for quashing the order of January 28, 1954, on the ground that it was a quasi-judicial order and the rules of natural justice had not been followed inasmuch as he had not been given a hearing before the review application was allowed by the Central Government, thus affecting his rights to the -lease granted by the State of Orissa. The writ petition was heard by a learned Single Judge of the High Court and it was held that the order was not a quasi-judicial order but merely an administrative one and that there being no lis, the appellant was not entitled to a hearing. In the result, the writ petition failed. The appellant went up in Letters Patent Appeal to a Division Bench of the High Court, which upheld the order of the learned Single Judge. The appellant then applied for a certificate to permit him to appeal to this Court which was granted; and that is how the matter has come up before us.
Shri N. C. Chatterji appearing on behalf of the appellant contends that the Central Government was acting in a quasi- judicial capacity when it passed the order under r. 54 of the Rules and therefore it was incumbent upon it to hear the appellant before deciding the review application, and inasmuch as it did not do so it contravened the principles of natural justice which apply in such a case and the order is liable to be quashed. In support of this, learned counsel relies on Nagendra Nath Bora and another v. The Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam and others (1), and submits that rr. 52 to 55 of the Rules which are relevant for the purpose clearly show that the proceeding before the Central Government is a quasi-judicial proceeding in view of the following circumstances appearing from these rules: (1) Rule 52 gives a statutory right to any person aggrieved by an order of the State Government to apply for review in case of refusal of a mining lease; (2) It also prescribes a period of limitation, namely, two months; (3) Rule 53 prescribes a fee for an application under r. 52. These circumstances taken with the circumstance that a lis is (1) [1958] S.C.R. 1240.
created as soon as a person aggrieved by an order is given the right to go up in review against another person in whose favour the order has been passed by the State Government show that the proceeding before the Central Government at any rate at the stage Of review is quasi-judicial to which rules of natural justice apply.
Mr. G. S. Pathak appearing for the third respondent on the other hand contends that the view taken by the High Court is correct and that the order of January 28, 1954, is a mere administrative order and therefore it was not necessary for the Central Government to hear either party before passing that order. He points out that the minerals, for mining which the lease is granted under the Rules, are the property of the State. No person applying for a mining lease of such minerals has any right to the grant of the lease. According to him, the right will only arise after the lease has been granted by the State Government and the review application, if any, has been decided by the Central Government. He submits that even under r. 32, which deals with priority the State Government is not bound to grant the lease to the person who applies first and it can for any special reason and with the prior approval of the Central Government grant it to a person who applies later. His contention further is that as at the earlier stage when the grant is made by the State Government the order granting the lease is a mere administrative order-as it must be in these circumstances (he asserts)-, the order passed on review by the Central Government must also partake of the same nature. In order to decide between these rival contentions it is useful to refer to rules 52 to 55 which fall for consideration in this case. These are the rules as they existed up to 1953. Since then we are told there have been amendments and even the Act has been replaced by the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957. We are, however, not concerned with the Rules as modified after January 1954 or with the Act of 1957. Rule 52 inter alia provides that -any person aggrieved by an order of the State Government refusing to grant a mining lease may within two months of the date of such order apply to the Central Government for reviewing the same. Rule 53 prescribes a fee. Rule 54 may be quoted in extenso, " Upon receipt of such application, the Central Government may, if it thinks fit, call for the relevant records and other information from the State Government and after considering any explanation that may be offered by the State Government, cancel the order of the State Government or revise it in such manner as the Central Government may deem just and proper. "
This definition insists on three requisites each of which must be fulfilled in order that the act of the body may be a quasi-judicial act, namely, that the body of persons (1) must have legal authority, (2) to determine questions affecting the rights of subjects, and (3) must have the duty to act judicially. After analysing the various cases, Das J. (as he then was) laid down the following principles as deducible therefrom in Kushaldas S. Advani's case (1)at p. 725 :-
disputes arising out of a claim made by any party under the statute which claim is opposed by another party and to determine' the respective rights of the contesting parties who are opposed to each other, there is a lis and prima facie and in the absence of anything in the statute to the contrary it is the duty of the authority to act judicially and the decision of the authority is a quasi-judicial act; and (ii) that if a statutory authority has power to do any act which will prejudicially affect the subject, then, although there are not two parties apart from the authority and the contest is between the authority proposing to do the act and the subject opposing it, the final determination of the authority will yet be a quasi-judicial act provided the authority is required by the statute to act judicially. "	Total Judgement
