Manohar Lal vs The State Of Punjab on 11 November, 1960	Case Title
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 173/1956.
Appeal from the judgment and order dated May 23, 1956, of the Punjab High Court in Criminal Revision No. 1058/1954. K. L. Arora, for the appellant.
N. S. Bindra and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. 1960. November 11. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by AYYANGAR J.-This appeal on a certificate under Arts. 132 and 134(1) of the Constitution granted by the High Court of Punjab raises for consideration the constitutionality of s. 7(1) of the Punjab Trade Employees Act, 1940. The appellant-Manohar Lal--has a shop at Ferozepore Cantt. in which business is carried on under the name and style of I Imperial Book Depot'. Section 7 of the Punjab Trade Employees Act, 1940 (hereinafter called the Act), enacts:	Issue
The appellant admitted the facts but he pleaded that the Act would not apply to his shop or establishment for the reason that he had engaged no strangers as employees but that the entire work in the shop was being done by himself and by the members of his family, and that to hold that s. 7(1) of the Act would apply to his shop would be unconstitutional as violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Arts. 14, 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution. The additional District Magistrate rejected the plea raised by the appellant regarding the constitutionality of s. 7(1) in its application to shops where no " employees " were engaged and sentenced him to a fine of Rs. 100 and simple imprisonment in default of payment of the fine (since the appellant had been convicted once before). The appellant applied to the High Court of Punjab to revise this order, but the Revision was dismissed. The learned Judges, however, granted a cer- tificate of fitness which has enabled the appellant to file the appeal to this Court.	Facts
to extract the provision relevant to this appeal. The appellant had chosen Friday as " the close day ", i.e., the day of the week on which his shop would remain closed. The Inspector of Shops and Commercial Establishments, Ferozepore Circle, visited the appellant's shop on Friday, the 29th of January, 1954, and found the shop open and the appellant's son selling articles. Obviously, if s. 7(1) were valid, the appellant was guilty of a contravention of its terms and he was accordingly prosecuted in the Court of the Additional District Magistrate, Ferozepore, for an offence under s. 16 of the Act which ran:
Though the validity of s. 7(1) of the Act was challenged in the High Court on various grounds, learned Counsel who appeared before us rested his attack on one point. He urged that the provision violated the appellant's right to carry on his trade or business guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g) and that the restriction imposed was not reasonable within Art. 19(6) because it was not in the interest of the general public. Learned Counsel drew our attention to the long title of the Act reading " An Act to limit the hours of work of Shop Assistants and Commercial Employees and to make certain regulations concerning their holidays, wages and terms of service " and pointed out that the insistence on the appellant to close his shop, in which there were no " employees ", was really outside the purview of the legislation and could not be said to subserve the purposes for which the Act was enacted. In short, the submission of the learned Counsel was that the provision for the compulsory closure of his shop for one day in the week served no interests of the general public and that it was unduly and unnecessarily restrictive of his freedom to carry on a lawful trade or business, otherwise in accordance with law, as he thought best and in a manner or mode most con- venient or profitable.	PetArg
Apart from this, the constitutionality of the impugned provision might be sustained on another ground also, viz., with a view to avoid evasion of provisions specifically designed for the protection of workmen employed. It may be pointed out that acts innocent in themselves may be prohibited and the restrictions in that regard would be reasonable, if the same were necessary to secure the efficient enforcement of valid provisions. The inclusion of a reasonable margin to ensure effective enforcement will not stamp a law otherwise valid as within legislative competence with the character of unconstitutionality as being unreasonable. The provisions could, therefore, be justified as for securing administrative convenience and for the proper enforcement of it without evasion. As pointed out by this Court in Manohar Lal v. The State (1) (when the appellant challenged the validity of this identical provision but on other grounds):	Precedent
We are clearly of the opinion that the submissions of the learned Counsel should be repelled. The long title of the Act extracted earlier and on which learned Counsel placed considerable reliance as a guide for the determination of the scope of the Act and the policy underlying the legislation, no doubt, indicates the main purposes of the enactment but cannot, obviously, control the express operative provisions of the Act, such as for example the terms of s. 7(1). Nor is the learned counsel right in his argument that the terms of s. 7(1) are irrelevant to secure the purposes or to subserve the underlying policy of the Act. The ratio of the legislation is social interest in the health of the worker who forms an essential part of the com- munity and in whose welfare, therefore, the community is vitally interested. It is in the light of this purpose that the provisions of the Act have to be scrutinized. Thus,, S. 3 which lays down the restrictions subject to which alone "I young persons ", defined as those under the age of 14, could be employed in any shop or commercial establishment, is obviously with a view to ensuring the health of the rising generation of citizens. Section 4 is concerned with imposing restrictions regarding the hours of work which might be extracted from workers other than " young persons ". Section 4(1) enacts:	Section
to close and permit his rival, who employs perhaps a dozen members of his family, to remain open, clearly places the former at a grave commercial disadvantage. To permit such a distinction might well engender discontent and in the end react upon the relations between employer and employed." We have, therefore, no hesitation in repelling the attack on the constitutionality of s. 7(1) of the Act. The appeal fails and is dismissed.
Appeal dismissed.	Conclusion
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 173/1956.
Appeal from the judgment and order dated May 23, 1956, of the Punjab High Court in Criminal Revision No. 1058/1954. K. L. Arora, for the appellant.
N. S. Bindra and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. 1960. November 11. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by AYYANGAR J.-This appeal on a certificate under Arts. 132 and 134(1) of the Constitution granted by the High Court of Punjab raises for consideration the constitutionality of s. 7(1) of the Punjab Trade Employees Act, 1940. The appellant-Manohar Lal--has a shop at Ferozepore Cantt. in which business is carried on under the name and style of I Imperial Book Depot'. Section 7 of the Punjab Trade Employees Act, 1940 (hereinafter called the Act), enacts:
to extract the provision relevant to this appeal. The appellant had chosen Friday as " the close day ", i.e., the day of the week on which his shop would remain closed. The Inspector of Shops and Commercial Establishments, Ferozepore Circle, visited the appellant's shop on Friday, the 29th of January, 1954, and found the shop open and the appellant's son selling articles. Obviously, if s. 7(1) were valid, the appellant was guilty of a contravention of its terms and he was accordingly prosecuted in the Court of the Additional District Magistrate, Ferozepore, for an offence under s. 16 of the Act which ran:
The appellant admitted the facts but he pleaded that the Act would not apply to his shop or establishment for the reason that he had engaged no strangers as employees but that the entire work in the shop was being done by himself and by the members of his family, and that to hold that s. 7(1) of the Act would apply to his shop would be unconstitutional as violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Arts. 14, 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution. The additional District Magistrate rejected the plea raised by the appellant regarding the constitutionality of s. 7(1) in its application to shops where no " employees " were engaged and sentenced him to a fine of Rs. 100 and simple imprisonment in default of payment of the fine (since the appellant had been convicted once before). The appellant applied to the High Court of Punjab to revise this order, but the Revision was dismissed. The learned Judges, however, granted a cer- tificate of fitness which has enabled the appellant to file the appeal to this Court.
Though the validity of s. 7(1) of the Act was challenged in the High Court on various grounds, learned Counsel who appeared before us rested his attack on one point. He urged that the provision violated the appellant's right to carry on his trade or business guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g) and that the restriction imposed was not reasonable within Art. 19(6) because it was not in the interest of the general public. Learned Counsel drew our attention to the long title of the Act reading " An Act to limit the hours of work of Shop Assistants and Commercial Employees and to make certain regulations concerning their holidays, wages and terms of service " and pointed out that the insistence on the appellant to close his shop, in which there were no " employees ", was really outside the purview of the legislation and could not be said to subserve the purposes for which the Act was enacted. In short, the submission of the learned Counsel was that the provision for the compulsory closure of his shop for one day in the week served no interests of the general public and that it was unduly and unnecessarily restrictive of his freedom to carry on a lawful trade or business, otherwise in accordance with law, as he thought best and in a manner or mode most con- venient or profitable.
We are clearly of the opinion that the submissions of the learned Counsel should be repelled. The long title of the Act extracted earlier and on which learned Counsel placed considerable reliance as a guide for the determination of the scope of the Act and the policy underlying the legislation, no doubt, indicates the main purposes of the enactment but cannot, obviously, control the express operative provisions of the Act, such as for example the terms of s. 7(1). Nor is the learned counsel right in his argument that the terms of s. 7(1) are irrelevant to secure the purposes or to subserve the underlying policy of the Act. The ratio of the legislation is social interest in the health of the worker who forms an essential part of the com- munity and in whose welfare, therefore, the community is vitally interested. It is in the light of this purpose that the provisions of the Act have to be scrutinized. Thus,, S. 3 which lays down the restrictions subject to which alone "I young persons ", defined as those under the age of 14, could be employed in any shop or commercial establishment, is obviously with a view to ensuring the health of the rising generation of citizens. Section 4 is concerned with imposing restrictions regarding the hours of work which might be extracted from workers other than " young persons ". Section 4(1) enacts:
It will be seen that while under sub-cl. (4) employers are injuncted from employing persons who had already worked for the maximum number of permitted hours in another establishment, sub-cl. (5) lays an embargo on the worker himself from injuring his health by overwork in an endeavour to earn more. From this it would be apparent that the Act is concerned-and properly concerned-with the welfare of the worker and seeks to prevent injury to it, not merely from the action of the employer but from his own. In other words, the worker is prevented from attempting to earn more wages by working longer hours than is good for him. If such a condition is necessary or proper in the case of a worker, there does not seem to be anything unreasonable in applying the same or similar principles to the employer who works on his own business. The learned Judges of the High Court have rested their decision on this part of the case on the reasoning that the terms of the impugned section might be justified on the ground that it is designed in the interest of the owner of the shop or establishment himself and that his health and welfare is a matter of interest not only to himself but to the general public The legislation is in effect the exercise of social control over the manner in which business should be carried on-regulated in the interests of the health and welfare not merely of those employed in it but of all those engaged in it. A restriction imposed with a view to secure this purpose would, in our opinion, be clearly saved by Art. 19(6).
Apart from this, the constitutionality of the impugned provision might be sustained on another ground also, viz., with a view to avoid evasion of provisions specifically designed for the protection of workmen employed. It may be pointed out that acts innocent in themselves may be prohibited and the restrictions in that regard would be reasonable, if the same were necessary to secure the efficient enforcement of valid provisions. The inclusion of a reasonable margin to ensure effective enforcement will not stamp a law otherwise valid as within legislative competence with the character of unconstitutionality as being unreasonable. The provisions could, therefore, be justified as for securing administrative convenience and for the proper enforcement of it without evasion. As pointed out by this Court in Manohar Lal v. The State (1) (when the appellant challenged the validity of this identical provision but on other grounds):
to close and permit his rival, who employs perhaps a dozen members of his family, to remain open, clearly places the former at a grave commercial disadvantage. To permit such a distinction might well engender discontent and in the end react upon the relations between employer and employed." We have, therefore, no hesitation in repelling the attack on the constitutionality of s. 7(1) of the Act. The appeal fails and is dismissed.
Appeal dismissed.	Total Judgement
