K.M. Nanavati vs The State Of Bombay on 5 September, 1960	Case Title
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Misc.Petn. No. 320/60.
Application for exemption from compliance with the requirements of Rule 5 of Order XXI, Supreme Court Rules, 1950 (as amended).
S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the petitioner.
[Sinha C. J.-Is not that power of pardon exercised before the trial ?] Pardon is given after the offence is proved. In the United States the question is never asked whether the President has invaded the power of the judiciary.
Exercise of prerogatives is in the jurisdiction of the Executive and not the judiciary, Lala Jairam Das v. King Emperor, L. R. 72 1. A. 120. The powers are in aid of justice.
145. require the approval of the President cannot convert the rules into a law made under Art. 245.
After a special leave petition is made to it or when the appeal is admitted, the Supreme Court has ample jurisdiction to give relief by way of suspension of sentence under Art. 141 and the rules. Power of suspension of sentence is not exercisable by the Executive when relief can be granted by the trial Court or a competent Court of appeal. The appropriate construction of the rule would indicate that the Governor's powers under Art. 161 operate only up to the stage when an application for special leave is made under Art. 136 and cannot interfere with the authority of the Supreme Court thereafter.
0. XXI of the Supreme Court Rules......... He, therefore, prayed that he may be exempted from compliance with the aforesaid rule and that his petition for special leave to appeal be posted for hearing without his surrendering to his sentence. On April 25, 1960, the special leave petition along with the application for exemption aforesaid was placed before a Division Bench which passed the following order:
disposal of the application for special leave to appeal. Rule 28 of 0. XXI of the Rules does not cover that period, but even so the power of the Court under Art. 142 of the Constitution to make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in this case was not disputed and it would be open to this Court even while an application for special leave is pending to grant bail under the powers it has under	Issue
For the determination of the constitutional issue raised in this case, it is not necessary to go into the merits of the case against the petitioner. It is only necessary to state the following facts in order to appreciate the factual background of the order of the Governor of Bombay aforesaid impugned in this case. The petitioner was Second in Command of 1. N. S. Mysore, which came to Bombay in the beginning of March 1959. On April 27, 1959, the petitioner was arrested in connection with a charge of murder under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate, Greater Bombay, in connection with that charge on April 28, 1959.. The Magistrate remanded him to police custody on that day. On the following day (April 29, 1959) the Magistrate received a letter from the Flag Officer, Bombay, to the effect that he was ready and willing to take the accused in naval custody as defined in s. 3(12) of the Navy__Act, 1957, in which custody he would continue to be detained under the orders of the Naval Provost Marshall in exercise of his authority under s. 89(2) and (3) of the Navy Act. There upon the Magistrate made the order directing that the accused should be detained in the Naval Jail and Detention Quarters in Bombay. The Magistrate has observed in his order that he had been moved under the instructions of the Government of India. The petitioner continued to remain in naval custody all along. In due course, he was placed on trial before the Sessions Judge, Greater Bombay. The trial was by a jury. The jury returned a verdict of 'not guilty' by a majority of eight to one. The learned Sessions Judge made a reference to the High Court under s. 307 of the Criminal Procedure Code, disagreeing with the verdict of the jury. The reference, being Cr. Ref No. 159 of 1959, was heard by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court. The High Court accepted the reference and convicted the petitioner under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced him to imprisonment for life, by its judgment and order dated March 11, 1960. On the same day, the Governor of Bombay passed the following order:-
The High Court also overruled the plea of mala fides. In the result, the High Court held that as the order made by the Governor had not been shown to be unconstitutional or contrary to law, the' warrant should not be reissued until the appeal to be filed in the Supreme Court had been disposed of, unless the order made by the Governor stands cancelled or withdrawn before that event. The petitioner filed his petition for special leave in this Court on April 20,1960, and also made an application on April 21, 1960, under 0. XLV, rr. 2 and 5 of the Supreme Court Rules for exemption from compliance with 0. XXI, r. 5, of those Rules. It was stated in the petition that, soon after his arrest, the petitioner throughout the trial before the Sessions Court and the hearing of the reference in the High Court, had been in naval custody and continued to be in that custody, that he had been throughout of good behavior and was ready and willing to obey any order of this Court, but that the petitioner " not being a free man it was not possible for him to comply with the requirements of r. 5 of	Facts
It was argued by Sir John Simon, K. C., for the respondents that:-	RespArg
[SUBBA RAO J.-Your argument assumes that if the Governor's order was valid then the Supreme Court Rule would not come in. It may not be necessarily so because in the present case there was a conviction and sentence and the accused has no right of appeal. The accused invited the order of the Governor. Entertainment of the appeal by special leave is in the discretion of the Supreme Court. Unless there are adequate reasons for the Governor to make this order, why should we use our discretion to give exemption to the accused from the rules of the Court ?] The sentence having been suspended there is no sentence and therefore this Court need not insist on his surrender. [SUBBA RAO J.-The provisions, of Art. 161 did not say that the power under it could be exercised notwithstanding other provisions of the Constitution. Was it, therefore, not necessary to hormonise this power with other constitutional provisions such as Art. 142 ?] [KAPUR J.-In India have the Courts power to suspend a sentence?] Yes, in a limited way as provided in s. 426.
[KAPUR J.-YOU are talking about suspension of the sentence but can the Supreme Court suspend the sentence ? We can grant bail but can we suspend the sentence? Yes, the Supreme Court has the power to stay the execution of sentence.] [KAPUR J.-IS the condition imposed upon Commander Nanavati illegal ?] No, nobody has said so.
[SUBBA RAO J.-There are two ways of reconciling the powers of the Governor under Art. 161 and those of the Supreme Court under Arts. 142, 144, 145. One way was to say that the Supreme Court had no power when the Executive exercised its powers. The other way was to say that while both had powers, so far as pardon and remission were concerned the Executive had the exclusive power, but as far as suspension was concerned, when proceedings were pending in the Supreme Court the Executive could not make an order impinging upon the Supreme Court's power.] But in the interest of justice the Supreme Court can pass any suitable order. The power of the Supreme Court under Art. 141 is a power generally- exercisable in all cases but the Governor's power is a special power. If there is a conflict between a General power and a special power the special power should prevail although I don't admit that there is a conflict.
H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,S. M. Sikri, Advocate-General for the State of Punjab and T. M.Sen, for the Attorney General of India. There is no conflict at all. The power of the Supreme Court is a judicial power; the power of the Governor is an executive power. They cannot collide at all. The Supreme Court can certainly exercise its power but let it not disregard the power of the executive. Let both the powers be harmonised. C.B. Agarwala (Amicus Curiae)-The Supreme Court is a Court of record under Art. 129 and has the constitutional privilege of prescribing. its procedure under which it will exercise its discretion vested in it under the Constitution. By Art. 145 the Supreme Court has the constitutional power to lay down rules imposing conditions under which alone it would entertain a special leave petition.
The rule in question made by the Supreme Court requires that the special leave petition is subject to the condition that the petitioner surrenders to the authority of the Supreme Court, and by passing the order in question the Governor has deprived the Supreme Court of its authority over the custody of the accused pending the special leave petition. Article 161 read with Art. 154 shows that the Governor even while exercising his constitutional powers cannot affect, modify or override the powers of the Supreme Court or the procedure prescribed by it.
[KAPUP. J.-Has the Court power to suspend a sentence ? Has any court ever done so ? Has any court ever ordered that the sentence will take effect after a certain period of time ?] The appellate Court has the. power to suspend the sentence under Art. 142.
[SINHA C. J.-The Executive can intervene at, any time during the trial.] Yes, in the case of pardon, The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S.C.R. 1069. [SINHA C: J.-The argument of the petitioner is that there is no sentence in operation and therefore there is nothing to surrender to.] There is apparently a conflict. The Court says the petitioner must surrender to his sentence. The Executive says that he need not surrender and will remain in some other custody. The Governor has extended the period of, suspension till the decision of the petitioner's appeal in this Court. There is clash with the rule of this Court. [SINHA C. J.-If the Supreme Court refused bail can the executive suspend the sentence ?] No, it cannot, in cases of suspension there is apparently a conflict. There is a distinction between pardon and suspension. Suspension stands on a different footing. Pardon can be granted at any stage but suspension of sentence can be made only after the sentence is inflicted. H.M. Seervai in reply. Nothing in Arts. 142, 145 and ss. 411, 426, Code of Criminal Procedure, will supersede the powers of the Governor to grant reprieve, etc. The Code of Criminal Procedure gives the power of suspension, of bail, etc. [KAPUR J.-Did the Federal Court have power to suspend a sentence.] Yes, it had the power to grant bail or stay execution of sentence. The power of the Court to suspend is not absolute.
[SINHA C. J.-The Executive is bound to execute the orders of the Court.] Yes, but if the Government, after the passing of the Court's order, itself in its own jurisdiction passes an order suspending the sentence the Executive in that case has no authority to execute the order of the Court, United States v. Benz, 75 L. Ed. 354, Hales Pleas of the Crown,-Reprieves before or after the judgment, p. 412, Rogers v. Peck, 50 L. Ed. 256Reprieve being granted when a matter was before the Court.
1960. September 5. The Judgment of Sinha, C. J., Gajendragadkar, Subba Rao and Wanchoo, JJ., was delivered by Sinha C. J. Kapur, J., delivered a separate Judgment. SINHA C. J.-This matter has been placed before the Constitution Bench in father extraordinary circumstances, as will presently appear. It involves the question as to what is the content of the power conferred on the Governor of a State under Art. 161 of the Constitution ; and whether the order of the Governor of Bombay dated March 11, 1960, impinges on the judicial powers of this Court, with particular reference to its powers under Art. 142 of the Constitution.
In pursuance of the judgment of the High Court, a writ issued to the Sessions Judge, Greater Bombay, communicating the order of the High Court convicting and sentencing the petitioner as aforesaid. The Sessions Judge issued a warrant for the arrest of the accused and sent it to the police officer in charge of the City Sessions Court for Greater Bombay for execution. The warrant was returned unnerved with the report that the warrant could not be served in view of the order set out above passed by the Governor of Bombay suspending the sentence upon the petitioner. The Sessions Judge then returned the writ to- gether with the unexecuted warrant to the High Court. In the meantime an application for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court was made soon after the judgment was pronounced by the High Court and the matter was fixed for hearing on March 14, 1960. On that day the matter of the unexecuted warrant was placed before the Division Bench which directed that, in view of the unusual and unprecedented situation arising out of the order of the Governor the matter should be referred to a larger Bench. Notice was accordingly issued to the State of Bombay and to the accused person. A Special Bench of five Judges of that Court heard the matter. The Special Bench permitted two Advocates, Mr. Kotwal and Mr. Pranjpe, to appear on behalf of the Western India Advocates' Association. Similarly, Mr. Peerbhoy was also permitted to appear along with Mr. Latifi on behalf of the Bombay Bar Association. They were heard as amicus curiae in view of the fact that the Advocate General for the State of Bombay and the counsel for accused were both sailing in the same boat, that is to say, both of them were appearing to support the order made by the Governor. In view of the great importance of the issues involved, the Court allowed those Advocates to represent the other view point. The Advocate General of Bombay as also counsel for the accused made objections to the Court hearing the Advocates aforesaid on the ground that they had no locus standi. The Advocate General of Bombay also raised a preliminary objection to the hearing of the matter by the Special Bench on the ground that it had no jurisdiction to examine the validity of the action taken by the Governor, because there was no judicial proceeding then pending. The criminal reference aforesaid, to which the State and the accused were parties, had already been disposed of and none of those parties had raised any grievance or objection to the order of the Governor impugned before the Court. The Court overruled that objection in view of the fact that the writ issued by the Court had been returned unexecuted on grounds which could be examined by the Court as to the validity of the reasons for the return of the warrant unexecuted. The High Court then examined the validity of the action taken by the Governor and came to the conclusion that it had the power to examine the extent of the Governor's power under Art. 161 of the Constitution and whether it had been validly exercised in the instant case. After an elaborate examination of the questions raised before it, the Special Bench came to the conclusion that the order passed by the Governor was not invalid. It also held that the condition of the suspension of the order that the petitioner be detained in naval custody was also not unconstitutional, even though the accused could not have been detained in Naval Jail under the provisions of the Navy Act, after he had been convicted by the High Court. The Court also held negativing the contention raised on behalf of the Advocates appearing as amicus curiae that the order of the Governor did not affect the power of the Supreme Court with particular reference to r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of the 'Supreme Court, which will be set out in full hereinafter. The reason for this conclusion, in the words of the High Court, is :-
This rule was, in terms, introduced into the Supreme Court Rules last year and it only crystallized the preexisting practice of this Court, which is also the practice in the High Courts. That practice is based on the very sound principle which was recognised long ago by the Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature, North Western Provinces, in 1870, in the case of The Queen v. Bisheshar Pershad (1). In that case no order of conviction had been passed. Only a warrant had been issued against the accused and as the war- rant. had been returned unserved a proclamation had been issued and attachment of the property of the accused had been ordered, with a view to compelling him to surrender. The validity of the warrant had been challenged before the High Court. The High Court refused to entertain his petition until he had surrendered because he was deemed to be in contempt of a lawfully constituted authority. The accused person in pursuance of the order of the High Court surrendered and after he bad surrendered, the matter was dealt with by the High Court on its merits. But as observed above the Rules framed under Art. 145 are only in aid of the powers of this Court under Art. 142 and the main question that falls for consideration is, whether the order of suspension passed by the Governor under Art. 161 could operate when this Court had been moved for granting special leave to appeal from the judgment and order of the High Court. As soon as the petitioner put in a petition for special leave to appeal the matter became sub-judice in this Court. This Court under its Rules could insist upon the petitioner surrendering to his sentence as a condition precedent to his being heard by this Court, though this Court could dispense with and in a proper case could exempt him from the operation of that rule. It is not disputed that this Court has the power to stay the execution of the sentence and to grant bail pending the (1) Vol. 2, N.W.P. High Court Reports, P. 441.
It is noteworthy that the reprieve granted in that case covered only the period until the grant or refusal of the petition for leave to appeal and did not go further so as to cover the period of pendency of the appeal to the Privy Council, unlike the order now impugned in this case. The power which was vested in the Crown to grant special leave to appeal to convicted persons from India has now been conferred on this Court under Art. 136. The power under Art. 136 can be exercised in respect of " any judgment, decree, determination, sentence or order in any cause or matter passed or made by any court or tribunal in the territory of India ". This wide and comprehensive power in respect of any determination by any court or tribunal must carry with it the power to pass orders incidental or ancillary to the exercise of that power. Hence the wide powers given to this Court under Art. 142 " to make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it ". As already indicated, the power of this Court to pass an order of suspension of sentence or to grant bail pending the disposal of the app- lication for special leave to appeal has not been disputed and could not have been disputed keeping in view the very wide terms in which Art. 142 is worded. When an application for special leave to appeal from a judgment and order of conviction and sentence passed by a High Court is made, this Court has been issuing orders of interim bail pending the hearing and disposal of the application for special leave as also during the pendency of the appeal to this Court after special leave has been granted. So if Mr. Seervai's argument is correct that the pendency of a special leave application in this Court makes no difference to the exercise of the power by the executive under Art. 161, then both the judiciary and the executive have to function in the same field at the same time. Mr. Seervai however contended that there could never be a conflict between the exercise of the power by the Governor under Art. 161 and by this Court under Art. 142 because the power under Art. 161 is executive power and the power under Art. 142 is judicial power and the two do not act in the same field. That in our opinion is over-simplification of the matter. It is true that the power under Art. 161 is exercised by the executive while the power under Art. 142 is that of the judiciary; but merely because one power is executive and the other is judicial, it does not follow that they can never be exercised in the same field. The field in which the power is exercised does not depend upon the authority exercising the power but upon the subject-matter. What is the power which is being exercised in this case ? The power is being exercised by the executive to suspend the sentence; that power can be exercised by this Court under Art. 142. The field in which the power is being exercised is also the same, namely, the suspension of the sentence passed upon a convicted person. It is significant that the Governor's power has been exercised in the present case by reference to the appeal which the petitioner intended to file in this Court. There can therefore be no doubt that the judicial power under Art. 142 and the Executive power under Art. 161 can within certain narrow limits be exercised in the same field. The question that immediately arises is one of harmonious construction of two provisions of the Constitution, as one is not made subject to the other by specific words in the Constitution itself As already pointed out, Art. 161 contains no words of limitation; in the same way, Art. 142 contains no words of limitation and in the fields covered by them they are unfettered. But if there is any field which is common to both, the principle of harmonious construction will. have to be adopted in order to avoid conflict between the two powers. It will be seen that the ambit of Art. 161 is very much wider and it is only in a very narrow field that the power contained in Art. 161 is also contained in Art. 142, namely, the power of suspension of sentence during the period when the matter is sub-judice in this Court. Therefore on the principle of harmonious construction and to avoid a conflict between the two powers it must be held that Art. 161 does not deal with the suspension of sentence during the time that 68 Art. 142 is in operation and the matter is sub-judice in this Court.
The power conferred by this section on an Appellate Court may be exercised also by the High Court in the case of any appeal by a convicted person to a Court subordinate thereto.
(This subsection was added later).
In the Act of 1898 also, which is still the law, the same power of suspension of the execution of sentences or remission of punishments is mentioned in s. 401 and in a. 426 giving the powers of the appellate courts the words "
Thus the power of the King or of the Governor General as a delegate to grant suspension remission or commutations remained unaffected by the introduction of a federal system with division of subjects between the Centre and the Provinces. This section was in the part dealing with the provisions as to certain legal matters. Thus under the Government of India Act the Governor General in his discretion had the power (1)[1930] A.C. 124, 136.
Historically in England the King as the autocratic head of the Government always had the power to pardon. This was a part " of that special preeminence which the King hath over and above all other persons and out of the ordinary course of the common law, in right of his royal dignity ". Bl. Comm. (i). 239.
The common law is thus stated in Hale's Pleas of the Crown, Vol. 2, Chapter 58, page 412:
In America the exercise of the power of pardon has been held to be governed by the same principles as are applicable to the exercise of the King's power of mercy under the English Constitution. In United States V. Wilson (3) Marshall', C. J., referring to the exercise of this power said :
Wayne, J., in Ex parte Wells (4) said:
We must then give the word the same meaning as prevailed here and in England at the time it found a place in the Constitution. This is in conformity with the principles laid down by this court in Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet.
264, 280; and in Flavell's case, 8 Watts & Serg. 197; Attorney General's brief"
Wayne, J., in the matter of Ex parte Wells (1) has described it as an act of mercy and an act of clemency applicable to pardons of every kind and form. Field, J., in Ex parte Garland (2) termed it the benign prerogative of mercy. It is the power for avoiding the execution of the judgment by reprieve or pardon whereof the former is temporary and the latter permanent. According to Willoughby's Constitution of America, Vol. III p. 1492:-
when conferred on the head of the executive is an executive power and function. The pardon may be conditional and the grant of a conditional pardon is not illegal. It has been held that the power of pardon is not subject to legislative control ; Ex parte Garland (1) ; nor is it open to the legislature to change the effect of 'pardon; United States v. Klein (2). The executive may grant pardon for good reasons or bad or for any reasons at all; its act is final and irrevocable. The Courts have no concern with the reasons which actuated the executive. This power is beyond the control of the judiciary; 39 Am. Jur. 545, ss. 43; Horwitz v. Connor (3).
Thus in England the exercise of the power by the King is the exercise of the power of mercy. The power is plenary in nature and unfettered and as far as constitutional powers are concerned it can be exercised at any time after the commission of the offence. In America the power of the executive under the Federal or State Constitution is the same in its nature as that exercised by the representative of the English Crown in America in colonial times. 67 C. J. S. 565. It has been said that executive clemency exists to afford relief from undue harshness or individual mistake in the operation or enforcement of the criminal law. It is essential in popular Governments as well as in monarchies to vest in some other party than courts the power to ameliorate or avoid particular criminal judgments and the exercise of this power is the exercise by the highest executive of his full discretion and with the confidence that he will not abuse it.
In Ex parte Garland (1), it was held that the President's pardon was not subject to legislative control,said Field, J., " the law thus conferred is unlimited . ............... It extends to every offence known to the law and may be exercised at any time after its commission.............................. The power of the President is not subject to legislative control. Congress can neither limit the effect not exclude from its effect any class of offenders. The benign prerogative (1) 18 L. Ed. 366, 370 & 371.
(3) 6 C. L. R. 1497.
of mercy resposed in him cannot be fettered by any legislative restriction.......... In Ex parts Grossman (1) it was held that there was no difference between the power of the President and that of the king in regard to pardon and at page 535 it was observed by Taft, C. J.
That case also laid down that the exercise of-the executive power to the extent of destroying the deterrent effect of judicial punishment would be to pervert it but whosoever is to make the power useful must have full discretion to exercise it and that discretion is vested in the highest officer in the nation.
In Biddle v. Vuco Perovich (2), Holmes., J., in dealing with pardons said:-
was exercised by the king and by delegation by the colonial Governors is now exercised by the highest executive in the land and that a pardon which includes a reprieve and a respite may variously be described as an act of clemency, an act of mercy, an act of grace, an exercise of the sovereign or governmental power or the determination of the ultimate authority. Therefore the principles which govern the exercise of this executive power are quite different from those which govern the exercise of the power of the courts. It may also be pointed out that the American courts have frowned upon any interference by the courts or by the legislature with the extent and effect of the prerogative of the people vested in the President in the exercise of his power of benign mercy. It was so held in Ex parte Garland (1) and United states v. Klein (2). In the former case the President bad given a pardon to rebels who had taken part in the civil war against the forces of the federation and the legislature had reversed that pardon and it was held that pardon was not subject to legislative control and in the latter which was a conditional pardon the power of the legislature was held not to be exercisable. The power of the executive can be exercised at any time. This is so in England, in America and in India. The King ", said Lord Coke, " can forgive any crime, offence, punishment or execution either before attainder, sentence or conviction or after " ; 3 Insti. 233 ; Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown bk. 2, Chapt.37. In the Indian Statute the words " any time "
May 10, 1905, but was dismissed on May 30, 1905, and a new trial was refused. On June 1, 1905, the execution of the sentence was further reprieved by the Governor until June 23, 1905. Thereupon she filed her petition in the Federal Court for a writ of habeas corpus which was dismissed. On that date the Governor further reprieved the execution of the sentence until December 8, 1905. The appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States was admitted on June 22, 1905, but the appeal was finally dismissed on November 27, 1905. One of the grounds of appeal in the Supreme Court was that the Governor, by giving the reprieve, issued his order requiring the execution while proceedings were pending in the court of the United States for her relief on habeas corpus and therefore the order was null and void and another ground was the failure of the Supreme Court of the State to grant a stay and fixing a date for execution. Both the grounds were overruled and it was held that the reprieve was to allow the cause to be heard on appeal in the Supreme Court and that the order of the Governor was not against due process clause and when the Governor had given a reprieve beyond the hearing in the State Supreme Court there was no occasion for the court to' act in the matter. This case shows that the power of reprieve is exercisable even during the period that proceedings are pending in an. appellate court.
The argument in opposition to the submissions of the learned Advocate-General was that although the power of the executive to grant pardon or reprieve or suspension of sentence was absolute and could be exercised at any time yet there was a statutory as well as a constitutional limitation on the exercise of this power which excluded the power of the executive for the period when the case of a defendant had been brought before the Supreme Court or before any other appellate court as the case may be. For the latter reference was made to a. 426 of the Criminal Procedure Code which gives the power to appellate courts to suspend a sentence pending an appeal for reasons to be recorded in writing and as to the former arts.
of the highest officer of the State and may be based on policy. It is to be exercised on the ground that public good will be as well or better promoted by suspension as by the execution but it is not judicial process. The exercise of this power lies in the absolute and uncontrolled discretion of the authority in whom it is vested. The power of the courts to suspend sentences is to be exercised on judicial considerations. At Common Law, it was held in Ex parte U. S. (1) courts possessed and asserted the right to exert judicial discretion in the enforcement of the law to temporarily suspend either the imposition of sentence or its execution when imposed to the end that pardon might be procured or (1) 61 L. Ed. 129 at P. 141.
that the violation of law in other respects might be prevented. It was also held that a Federal District Court exceeds its power by ordering that execution of a sentence imposed by it upon a. plea of guilty be suspended indefinitely during good behavior upon considerations wholly extraneous to the legality of the conviction : Ex parte U. S. (1).
Marshall, C. J., in U. S. v. George Wilson (2) stated as follows:-
In Ex parte Grossman (3), it was said that administration of justice by the courts is not necessarily or always wise or considerate of circumstances which may mitigate a guilt and in order to remedy this it was thought necessary to vest this in some other authority than the court to ameliorate or avoid particular criminal judgments. The exercise of this power has the effect of destroying the deterrent effect of judicial punishment. The extent of the two powers, judicial and executive and the difference between the two has been pointed out in United State8 v. Benz (4) in which it was held that no usurpation of the pardoning power of the executive is involved in the action of a court in reducing punishment after the prisoner had served a part of the imprisonment originally im. posed. At page 358 the distinction was stated as follows:-
According to Willis " Courts may exercise the power of suspending sentence although this, like the pardoning power, partakes of the nature of an executive function; which shows that giving of suspensions of sentences is an exercise of executive power; Willis' Constitutional Law, p. 151. Clemency is the function of the executive and it is the function of the courts to construe a Statute and not to defeat it as construed.
In Inglis v. Bobertson(1) which turned on the meaning of the Factors Act, Lord Herschell said:-
Viscount Simon, L. C., said in Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries Ltd. (2):-	Precedent
1960. July 18, 19, 20 21, 22.
H.M. Seervai, Advocate-General for the State of BombayAtul Setalved and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. [SinhaC. J.-Do you dispute the power of the Court to make this rule ?] H.M. Seervai:--No, My Lord. The Court imposes a penalty in 'its judicial capacity; the Executive remits the penalty in its executive capacity. There is no clash between the two powers. The powers of the Executive do not collide with the powers 'of the judiciary. The prerogative of the King or the President can never be in conflict with the judiciary, executive or legislature. Prerogatives come to aid the process of justice. Power of pardon is plenary in nature and unfettered. It could be exercised at any time after the commission of the offence, before indictment, during the trial and after the trial.
[Sinha C. J.-So far as India is concerned take a ,case like this: A man is convicted for murder and. sentenced to imprisonment for life. But subsequently it is found that the deceased died a natural death or the deceased appeared alive afterwards. What will happen ?] A pardon will be granted(s.-401). The President is entitled to pardon a person convicted for an offence punishable with death, United States v. Wilson, 8 L. Ed. 640 at 644, Ex parte Wells, 15 L. Ed. 421, 423.
A free and unconditional pardon has the effect of obliterating the crime. Section 426(1) empowers the Court to suspend the sentence or grant bail. The Executive, Judiciary and Legislature, paralysing each other never happens. United States v. Klein, 20 L. Ed. 519, Ex Parte Grossman, 69 L. Ed. 527.
[KAPUR J.-If the sentence is suspended, there is no sentence.] No, there is no sentence to surrender to. The execution of sentence is an executive power. The function of the Court ends with the passing of the sentence. To carry the sentence into execution is an executive order. United States v. Benz, 75 L. Ed. 354, 358.
In India we start with s. 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, and s. 295 Government of India Act,1935. Pardon is a part of the Constitutional scheme, Balmukand v. King, Emperor, L. R. 42 I. A. 133.
The State of Bihar v. M. Homi, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 78. Rule 5 Order XXI, of the Supreme Court Rules represent's a well-settled practice of all courts but it cannot affect the power of pardon or the exercise of prerogatives which is unfettered. The Rule postulates that there is a sentence to surrender to'. Under Arts. 72, 161 the President's prerogative is not made subject to any parliamentary legislation. There is no limit to Art. 72 or Art. 161 in the Constitution express or implied, Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad Ishaque, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 1104. The powers of the Court and the Executive are distinct and separate. The Executive comes in after the Court has performed its function.
The Court can say Judicially that justice requires that a convicted person should remain in jail but the President can say on considerations of mercy that he should be set at liberty, King v. S. S. Singh, I.L.R. 32 Pat. 243. Power of prerogative is far wider than the judicial powers of the Court. The expression " at any time " in s. 401, Code of Criminal Procedure, recognises this principle. [GAJENDRAGADKAR J.-Can the naval authorities keep the petitioner in naval custody ? Is it legal ?] The naval authorities made no such request. The Governor ordered him to be kept in naval custody and the naval authorities did not object. There is nothing illegal about it. It was perfectly legal. The validity of the Governor's order has not been referred to this constitutional bench of the Court. There is a distinction between illegal and unlawful. Illegal is that which the law directly forbids; unlawful is that which the law does not recognise. [SINHA C. J.-What is unlawful may become lawful by consent but what is illegal cannot become legal even by consent.] The Governor's order should not be held to be illegal without any complaint to that effect from the parties concerned and in their absence. When the navy accepted the Governor's order it could be presumed that there was a usage, S. 3(3)(12), Navy Act. There is no section in the Navy Act which prohibits such custody.
[GAJENDRAGADKAR J.7-18 this the position now that the Provost Marshall is keeping the petitioner in his custody without any express provision of the Navy Act?] Section 14 of the Navy Act. There is a difference between a private person and a naval officer being detained in naval custody. Commander Nanavati is still in naval service. He cannot leave the naval service.
The material rule is made under the constitutional right given to the Supreme Court as a Court of Record and not under a law made under Art. 245. Subordinate legislation presupposes a rule made under laws enacted under Art. 245. Its analogy cannot be .applied to rules under Art. 145. The fact that the rules made by the Supreme Court under Art.
of England, Volume 7, Third Edition, at p. 221, in these words:-
Though Art. 161 does not make any reference to Art. 72 of the Constitution, the power of the Governor of a State to grant pardon etc. to some extent overlaps the same power of the President, particularly in the case of a sentence of death. Articles 72 and 161 are in very general terms. It is, therefore, argued that they are not subject to any limitations and the respective area of exercise of power under these two Articles is indicated separately in respect of the President and of the Governor of a State. It is further argued that the exercise of power under these two Articles is not fettered by the provisions of Arts. 142 and 145 of the, Constitution or by any other law. Article 142(1) is in these terms:-
It will be seen that it consists of two parts. The first part gives power to this Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction to pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it. The second part deals with the enforcement of the order passed by this Court. Article 145 gives power to this Court with the approval of the President to make rules for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the Court. It is obvious that the rules made under Art. 145 are in aid of the power given to this Court under Art. 142 to pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it. Rule 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of this Court was framed under Art. 145 and is in these terms:-
In this connection it is well to contrast the language of s. 209(3) and s. 295(2) of the Government of India Act, 1935. Section 209(3) gave power to the Federal Court to order a stay of execution in any case under appeal to the Court, pending the hearing of the appeal. Section 295(2) provided that nothing in this Act shall derogate from the right of His Majesty, or of the Governor General if any such right is delegated to him by His Majesty, to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishments. It may have been possible to argue on the language of s.295(2) that the prerogative exercised by His Majesty transcended the power of the Federal Court under s. 209(3);but when we compare the language of Arts. 72 and 161 with the language of s. 295(2) of the Government of India Act, we find no words like " Nothing in this Constitution " or "
Article 142(1) is as under:-
Both articles 72 and 161 give the widest power to the President or the Governor of a State as the case may be and there are no words of limitation indicated in either of the two articles. It was argued that under arts. 142 and 145(1) of the Constitution certain powers are conferred on the Supreme Court and if the articles conferring powers on the President and the Governors are read along with the power given to the Supreme Court they create a conflict and therefore to give a harmonious interpretation to all the four articles it is necessary to cut down the amplitude of the powers conferred by arts. 72 and 161 of the Constitution. In regard to suspension of sentences it will be fruitful to trace the legislative history of the relevant powers of the executive and the judiciary which arise for construction. In the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 (Act XXV of 1861) the power of the executive was confined to remission of punishments and was contained in s. 54 which was as under:-
A new Criminal Procedure Code was enacted in 1898, a portion of which was subsequently amended. The section dealing with powers of suspension or remission of sentence is 401 which reads as under:-
And this sub-section was repealed by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950. The words Governor General in Council or the Local Government were suitably amended with the various constitutional changes.
The corresponding section of appellate courts is contained in a. 426 which is in Chapter XXXI dealing with appeals etc. The relevant portions of this section when quoted are as under:-
It may be mentioned that in the Code of 1861 the power given to the Governor General was to remit punishment to which an accused person was sentenced and the power of the appellate court was to suspend the sentence pending appeal in non- bailable offenses and to release on bail in bailable cases. In the Code of 1872 also the power of the Governor General and of the local Government was one of remission of punish- ment and the power of the appellate court was of suspension of sentences pending the appeal. In s. 401 of the Act of 1882 the legislature chose to use the words " suspension of the execution of a sentence or remit the whole or any part of punishment ". The power was discretionary and there is nothing to indicate that this power was in any way limited. But the power given to the appellate court was differently worded from what was in the previous Codes in that now it was necessary for the Courts to record reasons emphasising that the two powers-the one exercised by the executive and the other exercised by the judiciary-were two separate powers, no doubt, operating for the same purpose but exercised on different considerations and in different circumstances. Of course this does not mean that the courts did not exercise their power judicially previous to the Act of 1882.
to remit etc. sentences of death and Governors of provinces had the power in regard to all sentences passed in a province but the power of the King and of the Governor General as a delegate remained unaffected by the first sub- section of the section. Thus upto the coming into force of the Constitution the exercise of the King's prerogative remained unaffected, was plenary, unfettered and exercisable as hitherto.
A pardon is said by Lord Coke to be a " work of mercy; whereby the King, either before attainder, sentence or conviction or after forgiveth any crime, offence, punishment, execution, right, title, debt or duty, temporal or ecclesiastical ". 3 Inst. 233.
been exercised by the King, as the Chief Executive. Prior to the Revolution, the Colonies, being in effect under the laws of England, were accustomed to the exercise of it in the various forms, as they may be found in the English books. They were of course to be applied as occasions occurred, and they constituted a part of the jurisprudence of Anglo-America. At that time of the adoption of the Constitution, American statesmen were conversant with the prerogatives exercised by the Crown. Hence when the words to grant pardons were used in the Constitution, they convey to the mind the authority as exercised by the English Crown, or its representatives in the Colonies. At that time both Englishmen and Americans attached the same meaning to the words " pardon ". In the convention which framed the Constitution, no effort was made to define or change its meaning, although it was limited in cases of impeachment.
According to the American as also Indian Constitution the power as given to the President is not to reprieve and pardon but that he shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States except in cases of impeachment. Wayne, J., in Ex parte Well8 (1-) at page 425 has explained the difference between the meaning of these two expressions. "The first convoys only the idea of an absolute power as to the purpose or object for which it is given. The real language of the constitution is general, that is, common to the class of pardons known in the law as such whatever they may be by their denomination. We have shown that conditional pardon is one of them. A single remark from the power to grant reprieves will illustrate the point. That is not only to be used to delay a judicial sentence when the President shall think the merits of the case or some cause connected with the offender may require it, but it also extends to cases ex necessitate legis ...................... Though the reprieve in either case produces delay in the execution of a sentence ", the reprieves in the two cases are different in their legal character and different as to the causes which may induce the exercise of the power to reprieve.
The history of the prerogative of pardons and reprieves shows that the power of the executive in the matter of pardons and reprieves and other forms of pardons irrespective of the name used is of the widest amplitude and is plenary in nature and can be exercised at any time after the commission of the offence. The power of the executive is an act of grace and clemency. It is a sovereign or governmental power which ina monarchy is inherent in the King and in a Republicin the State or the people and which may, by the Constitution, be conferred on an officer or a department. It is an executive power of the Governor and it is the same as was exercised by the colonial Gover- nors in America 67 C. J. S. 565.
142 and 145 of the Constitution were referred to. Article 142 confers on the Supreme Court the power to do complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it and art. 145 gives to; the Supreme Court power to make rules with the approval of the President but subject. to any law ;Which the Parliament may pass. Under art. 145 which is the rule making power of this court, the court has made two rules which are relevant for the purpose of this appeal and they are Order 21, Rule 5 and Order 21, Rule 28 and when quoted they are as follows:-
As to suspension of sentence again in s. 426 of the Criminal Procedure Code it is expressly stated that an appellate court can suspend the sentence for reasons to be stated ; no such limitation is imposed on the executive under s. 401 of the Code. The language of the two sections themselves shows the field in which the two powers operate although the effect may be the same. It is relevant to consider in this connection the grounds on which a court acts in regard to offenses punishable with death or imprisonment for life (s.497 of Cr. P. C.) but no such restrictions impede executive action. Similarly when the Supreme Court acts under art. 142 it acts judicially and takes only those facts into consideration which are sufficient in the judicial Sense to justify the exercise of its power ; so would be the case when the power is exercised under the rules framed by the court. Thus it appears that the power of the executive and of the judiciary to exercise the power under arts. 161 and 142 or under ss. 401 and 426 are different in nature and are exercised on different considerations and even may have different effect.
Section 209(3) is in Part IX The Judicature and Chapter 1 the Federal Court. It gave power to the Federal Court to stay executions in any case under appeal as follows:
the Court, pending the hearing of the appeal, and execution shall be stayed accordingly Section 295 is in Part XII Misellaneous and under sub-head Provisions as to legal matters. Section 295 provided:-
209(3), whereas the power of the King or the Governor General acting under s. 295(2) will not be so which is seemingly incongruous. Besides the words " nothing in this Act shall derogate " in s. 295(2) only emphasise the constitutional position of the King's prerogative and of his delegate and was more in the nature of ex abundanti cautela' because under constitutional practice " Roy n'est lie par ascun statute, si il ne soit expressement nosme " is a principle which has been accepted in this court qua the Union or the States. " Where the King has any prerogative, estate, right, title or interest he shall not be barred of them by the general words of an Act if be not named therein "; Broom's Maxims, p. 39 (1939 ed.); Province of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation of the City of Bombay(1), where it was held that Crown is not bound unless expressly named or is bound by " necessary implication If the argument of limitation of the King's prerogative because of these saving words is sound then it means in the Constitution Act the British Parliament did contemplate and provide that the power of the King or of the Governor General as his delegate as to suspensions, remissions or commutation would be overriding and exercisable in spite of the pendency of an appeal in the Federal Court. There are seven reasons for denying the argument of conflict between arts. 142 and 161 :-
Statute, which speaks with less perspicuity, and of which the words may be capable of such construction as by possibility to diminish the efficacy of the other provisions of the Act"
In the instant case the words of art. 161 are clear and unambiguous. It is an unsound construction to put a fetter on the plenitude of the powers given in that article by reading an earlier article which deals with the powers of a different department of Government and uses language " which speaks with less perspicuity (3)Moreover it is a relevant consideration in the matter of interpretation that the two articles are in two different parts. There is ample authority for the view that one is entitled to have regard to the indicia afforded by the arrangement of sections and from other indications; Dormer v. New Castle-upon-Tyne Corporation (2) per Slesser, L. J. The arrangement of sections into parts and their headings are substantive parts of the Act and as is pointed out by Craies on Statute Law (5th Ed.), p. 165, " they are gradually winning recognition as a kind of preamble to the enactments which they precede limiting or explaining their operation ". They may be looked to as a better key to construction than a mere preamble. Ibid p. 195. (1) 1 C.L.R. 329, 357.
and operative during the pendency of appeals but will be restrictive when appeal is brought in the Supreme Court. (6)Article 161 is a later provision and when it was adopted the Constitution makers had already adopted art. 72 and arts. 142(1) and 145. It does not seem reasonable that by so juxtaposing the articles it was the intention of the framers to constrict the power of the executive. The rules of interpretation on this point have thus been stated:	Section
any time " can only mean after conviction. It cannot mean before conviction, because there cannot be any sentence before conviction. The question then is: " Does it cover the entire period after the order of conviction and sentence even when an appeal is pending in the appellate court and s. 426 can be availed of by the appellant ?"
son, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing order that the execution ,of the sentence or order appealed against be suspended and, if he is in confinement, that he be released on bail or on his own bond.
When the appellant is ultimately sentenced to imprisonment, penal servitude or transportation, the time during which he is so released shall be excluded in computing the term for which he is so sentenced ".
confident that they could be shortly and earnestly understood ".
(2) 20 L. Ed. 519.
(1) 61 L. Ed. 129 at p. 141.
(2) 8 L. Ed. 640, 643. 644.
(3) 69 L. Ed. 527, 530. 532.535.
(4) 75 L. Ed. 354.
Loveland(2):
(2) [1940] 2 K.B. 204, 217 (C.A.).
These cases place accent on the principle that the articles 142(1) and 161 deal with different subjects showing operation in separate fields and were not intended to overlap so as to be restrictive of each other. (4)The language of art. 161 is general, i. e., the power extends equally to all class. of pardons known to the law whatever the nomenclature used ; Ex parte Wells (3) and therefore if the power to pardon is absolute and exercisable at any time on principles which are quite different from the principles on which judicial power is exercised then restrictions on the exercise of the lesser power of suspension for a period, during which the appeal is pending in this court would be an unjustifiable limitation on the power of the executive. It could not have been the intention of the framers that the amplitude of executive power should be restricted as to become suspended for the period of pendency of an appeal in the Supreme Court. (5)If this interpretation is-adopted it would lead to this rather incongruous result that if the appeal is pending in a Court of Session or the High Court the power of the executive will be abundant, overriding (1) [1898] A.C. 616, 630.
(2) [1940] A.C. 1114 (3) 15 L. Ed, 421, 424.
142(1) is a general power exercisable for doing complete justice in any cause or matter. If they, i.e., arts. 161 and 142(1) deal with (1) 73 I.A. 271 (2) Criminal Appeal No. 158 Of 1956.
(3) [1891] 2 Q.B. 267, 272.
(4) [1940] 2 K. B. 204. 217 (C.A.).
(5) [1867-8] 3 C.P. 26.
the same subject matter as is contended then art. 161 must prevail over art. 142(1) which is in accord with the constitutional position as above discussed. In the circumstances of this case 1 would grant the petitioner exemption prayed for and proceed to hear the special leave petition on merits.
BY COURT: In view of the majority Judgment, the petition is dismissed.
Petition dismissed.	Conclusion
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Misc.Petn. No. 320/60.
Application for exemption from compliance with the requirements of Rule 5 of Order XXI, Supreme Court Rules, 1950 (as amended).
1960. July 18, 19, 20 21, 22.
S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the petitioner.
H.M. Seervai, Advocate-General for the State of BombayAtul Setalved and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. [SinhaC. J.-Do you dispute the power of the Court to make this rule ?] H.M. Seervai:--No, My Lord. The Court imposes a penalty in 'its judicial capacity; the Executive remits the penalty in its executive capacity. There is no clash between the two powers. The powers of the Executive do not collide with the powers 'of the judiciary. The prerogative of the King or the President can never be in conflict with the judiciary, executive or legislature. Prerogatives come to aid the process of justice. Power of pardon is plenary in nature and unfettered. It could be exercised at any time after the commission of the offence, before indictment, during the trial and after the trial.
[Sinha C. J.-Is not that power of pardon exercised before the trial ?] Pardon is given after the offence is proved. In the United States the question is never asked whether the President has invaded the power of the judiciary.
[Sinha C. J.-So far as India is concerned take a ,case like this: A man is convicted for murder and. sentenced to imprisonment for life. But subsequently it is found that the deceased died a natural death or the deceased appeared alive afterwards. What will happen ?] A pardon will be granted(s.-401). The President is entitled to pardon a person convicted for an offence punishable with death, United States v. Wilson, 8 L. Ed. 640 at 644, Ex parte Wells, 15 L. Ed. 421, 423.
A free and unconditional pardon has the effect of obliterating the crime. Section 426(1) empowers the Court to suspend the sentence or grant bail. The Executive, Judiciary and Legislature, paralysing each other never happens. United States v. Klein, 20 L. Ed. 519, Ex Parte Grossman, 69 L. Ed. 527.
[SUBBA RAO J.-Your argument assumes that if the Governor's order was valid then the Supreme Court Rule would not come in. It may not be necessarily so because in the present case there was a conviction and sentence and the accused has no right of appeal. The accused invited the order of the Governor. Entertainment of the appeal by special leave is in the discretion of the Supreme Court. Unless there are adequate reasons for the Governor to make this order, why should we use our discretion to give exemption to the accused from the rules of the Court ?] The sentence having been suspended there is no sentence and therefore this Court need not insist on his surrender. [SUBBA RAO J.-The provisions, of Art. 161 did not say that the power under it could be exercised notwithstanding other provisions of the Constitution. Was it, therefore, not necessary to hormonise this power with other constitutional provisions such as Art. 142 ?] [KAPUR J.-In India have the Courts power to suspend a sentence?] Yes, in a limited way as provided in s. 426.
[KAPUR J.-If the sentence is suspended, there is no sentence.] No, there is no sentence to surrender to. The execution of sentence is an executive power. The function of the Court ends with the passing of the sentence. To carry the sentence into execution is an executive order. United States v. Benz, 75 L. Ed. 354, 358.
In India we start with s. 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, and s. 295 Government of India Act,1935. Pardon is a part of the Constitutional scheme, Balmukand v. King, Emperor, L. R. 42 I. A. 133.
Exercise of prerogatives is in the jurisdiction of the Executive and not the judiciary, Lala Jairam Das v. King Emperor, L. R. 72 1. A. 120. The powers are in aid of justice.
[SUBBA RAO J.-Your argument is that one acts in the judicial field, while the other acts in the executive field and hence there is no conflict. But whatever the nature of the power, the Governor in exercising that power is encroaching on the field occupied by the Supreme Court. Under the Constitution the Supreme Court can entertain appeals and pass the necessary orders and perhaps, under the rules suspend or stay execution of a sentence. On the other hand the Governor under Art. 161 has powers to suspend the sentence. I am suggesting that where there is a conflict of jurisdiction between the Judiciary and the Executive is it not reasonable to bring harmony between these two? What is wrong in confining the power of the Governor to cases where there is no appeal pending before the Supreme Court ? Can the executive interfere with the judiciary in the midst of a case?] Yes, in its administrative capacity it can ask the. Advocate-General to enter a nolle prosequi and terminate the trial. This a statutory power. Babu Lal Chokhani v. Emperor, [1937] 1 Cal. 464. Court refused bail but the executive suspended the sentence.
The State of Bihar v. M. Homi, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 78. Rule 5 Order XXI, of the Supreme Court Rules represent's a well-settled practice of all courts but it cannot affect the power of pardon or the exercise of prerogatives which is unfettered. The Rule postulates that there is a sentence to surrender to'. Under Arts. 72, 161 the President's prerogative is not made subject to any parliamentary legislation. There is no limit to Art. 72 or Art. 161 in the Constitution express or implied, Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad Ishaque, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 1104. The powers of the Court and the Executive are distinct and separate. The Executive comes in after the Court has performed its function.
[KAPUR J.-YOU are talking about suspension of the sentence but can the Supreme Court suspend the sentence ? We can grant bail but can we suspend the sentence? Yes, the Supreme Court has the power to stay the execution of sentence.] [KAPUR J.-IS the condition imposed upon Commander Nanavati illegal ?] No, nobody has said so.
The Court can say Judicially that justice requires that a convicted person should remain in jail but the President can say on considerations of mercy that he should be set at liberty, King v. S. S. Singh, I.L.R. 32 Pat. 243. Power of prerogative is far wider than the judicial powers of the Court. The expression " at any time " in s. 401, Code of Criminal Procedure, recognises this principle. [GAJENDRAGADKAR J.-Can the naval authorities keep the petitioner in naval custody ? Is it legal ?] The naval authorities made no such request. The Governor ordered him to be kept in naval custody and the naval authorities did not object. There is nothing illegal about it. It was perfectly legal. The validity of the Governor's order has not been referred to this constitutional bench of the Court. There is a distinction between illegal and unlawful. Illegal is that which the law directly forbids; unlawful is that which the law does not recognise. [SINHA C. J.-What is unlawful may become lawful by consent but what is illegal cannot become legal even by consent.] The Governor's order should not be held to be illegal without any complaint to that effect from the parties concerned and in their absence. When the navy accepted the Governor's order it could be presumed that there was a usage, S. 3(3)(12), Navy Act. There is no section in the Navy Act which prohibits such custody.
[GAJENDRAGADKAR J.7-18 this the position now that the Provost Marshall is keeping the petitioner in his custody without any express provision of the Navy Act?] Section 14 of the Navy Act. There is a difference between a private person and a naval officer being detained in naval custody. Commander Nanavati is still in naval service. He cannot leave the naval service.
[SUBBA RAO J.-There are two ways of reconciling the powers of the Governor under Art. 161 and those of the Supreme Court under Arts. 142, 144, 145. One way was to say that the Supreme Court had no power when the Executive exercised its powers. The other way was to say that while both had powers, so far as pardon and remission were concerned the Executive had the exclusive power, but as far as suspension was concerned, when proceedings were pending in the Supreme Court the Executive could not make an order impinging upon the Supreme Court's power.] But in the interest of justice the Supreme Court can pass any suitable order. The power of the Supreme Court under Art. 141 is a power generally- exercisable in all cases but the Governor's power is a special power. If there is a conflict between a General power and a special power the special power should prevail although I don't admit that there is a conflict.
H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,S. M. Sikri, Advocate-General for the State of Punjab and T. M.Sen, for the Attorney General of India. There is no conflict at all. The power of the Supreme Court is a judicial power; the power of the Governor is an executive power. They cannot collide at all. The Supreme Court can certainly exercise its power but let it not disregard the power of the executive. Let both the powers be harmonised. C.B. Agarwala (Amicus Curiae)-The Supreme Court is a Court of record under Art. 129 and has the constitutional privilege of prescribing. its procedure under which it will exercise its discretion vested in it under the Constitution. By Art. 145 the Supreme Court has the constitutional power to lay down rules imposing conditions under which alone it would entertain a special leave petition.
The material rule is made under the constitutional right given to the Supreme Court as a Court of Record and not under a law made under Art. 245. Subordinate legislation presupposes a rule made under laws enacted under Art. 245. Its analogy cannot be .applied to rules under Art. 145. The fact that the rules made by the Supreme Court under Art.
145. require the approval of the President cannot convert the rules into a law made under Art. 245.
The rule in question made by the Supreme Court requires that the special leave petition is subject to the condition that the petitioner surrenders to the authority of the Supreme Court, and by passing the order in question the Governor has deprived the Supreme Court of its authority over the custody of the accused pending the special leave petition. Article 161 read with Art. 154 shows that the Governor even while exercising his constitutional powers cannot affect, modify or override the powers of the Supreme Court or the procedure prescribed by it.
After a special leave petition is made to it or when the appeal is admitted, the Supreme Court has ample jurisdiction to give relief by way of suspension of sentence under Art. 141 and the rules. Power of suspension of sentence is not exercisable by the Executive when relief can be granted by the trial Court or a competent Court of appeal. The appropriate construction of the rule would indicate that the Governor's powers under Art. 161 operate only up to the stage when an application for special leave is made under Art. 136 and cannot interfere with the authority of the Supreme Court thereafter.
Assuming, without admitting, that the Governor could interfere with the authority and jurisdiction of the Supreme Court he could do so only if a valid order was made under Art. 161. The order under consideration being subject to an illegal condition is an illegal order. Even if, the condition is not illegal it has been operated only by the petitioner's voluntary consent with the object of not complying with the rule of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court will decline to exercise its discretion in favour of the petitioner who by his voluntary act put himself out of its jurisdiction.
Under Art. 144 the Governor's authority is bound to aid the court in the exercise of its jurisdiction. It is open to the petitioner to approach the Government to modify the Governor's order to enable him to comply with the procedure of the Supreme Court.
[KAPUP. J.-Has the Court power to suspend a sentence ? Has any court ever done so ? Has any court ever ordered that the sentence will take effect after a certain period of time ?] The appellate Court has the. power to suspend the sentence under Art. 142.
[SINHA C. J.-The Executive can intervene at, any time during the trial.] Yes, in the case of pardon, The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S.C.R. 1069. [SINHA C: J.-The argument of the petitioner is that there is no sentence in operation and therefore there is nothing to surrender to.] There is apparently a conflict. The Court says the petitioner must surrender to his sentence. The Executive says that he need not surrender and will remain in some other custody. The Governor has extended the period of, suspension till the decision of the petitioner's appeal in this Court. There is clash with the rule of this Court. [SINHA C. J.-If the Supreme Court refused bail can the executive suspend the sentence ?] No, it cannot, in cases of suspension there is apparently a conflict. There is a distinction between pardon and suspension. Suspension stands on a different footing. Pardon can be granted at any stage but suspension of sentence can be made only after the sentence is inflicted. H.M. Seervai in reply. Nothing in Arts. 142, 145 and ss. 411, 426, Code of Criminal Procedure, will supersede the powers of the Governor to grant reprieve, etc. The Code of Criminal Procedure gives the power of suspension, of bail, etc. [KAPUR J.-Did the Federal Court have power to suspend a sentence.] Yes, it had the power to grant bail or stay execution of sentence. The power of the Court to suspend is not absolute.
[SINHA C. J.-The Executive is bound to execute the orders of the Court.] Yes, but if the Government, after the passing of the Court's order, itself in its own jurisdiction passes an order suspending the sentence the Executive in that case has no authority to execute the order of the Court, United States v. Benz, 75 L. Ed. 354, Hales Pleas of the Crown,-Reprieves before or after the judgment, p. 412, Rogers v. Peck, 50 L. Ed. 256Reprieve being granted when a matter was before the Court.
1960. September 5. The Judgment of Sinha, C. J., Gajendragadkar, Subba Rao and Wanchoo, JJ., was delivered by Sinha C. J. Kapur, J., delivered a separate Judgment. SINHA C. J.-This matter has been placed before the Constitution Bench in father extraordinary circumstances, as will presently appear. It involves the question as to what is the content of the power conferred on the Governor of a State under Art. 161 of the Constitution ; and whether the order of the Governor of Bombay dated March 11, 1960, impinges on the judicial powers of this Court, with particular reference to its powers under Art. 142 of the Constitution.
For the determination of the constitutional issue raised in this case, it is not necessary to go into the merits of the case against the petitioner. It is only necessary to state the following facts in order to appreciate the factual background of the order of the Governor of Bombay aforesaid impugned in this case. The petitioner was Second in Command of 1. N. S. Mysore, which came to Bombay in the beginning of March 1959. On April 27, 1959, the petitioner was arrested in connection with a charge of murder under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate, Greater Bombay, in connection with that charge on April 28, 1959.. The Magistrate remanded him to police custody on that day. On the following day (April 29, 1959) the Magistrate received a letter from the Flag Officer, Bombay, to the effect that he was ready and willing to take the accused in naval custody as defined in s. 3(12) of the Navy__Act, 1957, in which custody he would continue to be detained under the orders of the Naval Provost Marshall in exercise of his authority under s. 89(2) and (3) of the Navy Act. There upon the Magistrate made the order directing that the accused should be detained in the Naval Jail and Detention Quarters in Bombay. The Magistrate has observed in his order that he had been moved under the instructions of the Government of India. The petitioner continued to remain in naval custody all along. In due course, he was placed on trial before the Sessions Judge, Greater Bombay. The trial was by a jury. The jury returned a verdict of 'not guilty' by a majority of eight to one. The learned Sessions Judge made a reference to the High Court under s. 307 of the Criminal Procedure Code, disagreeing with the verdict of the jury. The reference, being Cr. Ref No. 159 of 1959, was heard by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court. The High Court accepted the reference and convicted the petitioner under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced him to imprisonment for life, by its judgment and order dated March 11, 1960. On the same day, the Governor of Bombay passed the following order:-
In pursuance of the judgment of the High Court, a writ issued to the Sessions Judge, Greater Bombay, communicating the order of the High Court convicting and sentencing the petitioner as aforesaid. The Sessions Judge issued a warrant for the arrest of the accused and sent it to the police officer in charge of the City Sessions Court for Greater Bombay for execution. The warrant was returned unnerved with the report that the warrant could not be served in view of the order set out above passed by the Governor of Bombay suspending the sentence upon the petitioner. The Sessions Judge then returned the writ to- gether with the unexecuted warrant to the High Court. In the meantime an application for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court was made soon after the judgment was pronounced by the High Court and the matter was fixed for hearing on March 14, 1960. On that day the matter of the unexecuted warrant was placed before the Division Bench which directed that, in view of the unusual and unprecedented situation arising out of the order of the Governor the matter should be referred to a larger Bench. Notice was accordingly issued to the State of Bombay and to the accused person. A Special Bench of five Judges of that Court heard the matter. The Special Bench permitted two Advocates, Mr. Kotwal and Mr. Pranjpe, to appear on behalf of the Western India Advocates' Association. Similarly, Mr. Peerbhoy was also permitted to appear along with Mr. Latifi on behalf of the Bombay Bar Association. They were heard as amicus curiae in view of the fact that the Advocate General for the State of Bombay and the counsel for accused were both sailing in the same boat, that is to say, both of them were appearing to support the order made by the Governor. In view of the great importance of the issues involved, the Court allowed those Advocates to represent the other view point. The Advocate General of Bombay as also counsel for the accused made objections to the Court hearing the Advocates aforesaid on the ground that they had no locus standi. The Advocate General of Bombay also raised a preliminary objection to the hearing of the matter by the Special Bench on the ground that it had no jurisdiction to examine the validity of the action taken by the Governor, because there was no judicial proceeding then pending. The criminal reference aforesaid, to which the State and the accused were parties, had already been disposed of and none of those parties had raised any grievance or objection to the order of the Governor impugned before the Court. The Court overruled that objection in view of the fact that the writ issued by the Court had been returned unexecuted on grounds which could be examined by the Court as to the validity of the reasons for the return of the warrant unexecuted. The High Court then examined the validity of the action taken by the Governor and came to the conclusion that it had the power to examine the extent of the Governor's power under Art. 161 of the Constitution and whether it had been validly exercised in the instant case. After an elaborate examination of the questions raised before it, the Special Bench came to the conclusion that the order passed by the Governor was not invalid. It also held that the condition of the suspension of the order that the petitioner be detained in naval custody was also not unconstitutional, even though the accused could not have been detained in Naval Jail under the provisions of the Navy Act, after he had been convicted by the High Court. The Court also held negativing the contention raised on behalf of the Advocates appearing as amicus curiae that the order of the Governor did not affect the power of the Supreme Court with particular reference to r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of the 'Supreme Court, which will be set out in full hereinafter. The reason for this conclusion, in the words of the High Court, is :-
The High Court also overruled the plea of mala fides. In the result, the High Court held that as the order made by the Governor had not been shown to be unconstitutional or contrary to law, the' warrant should not be reissued until the appeal to be filed in the Supreme Court had been disposed of, unless the order made by the Governor stands cancelled or withdrawn before that event. The petitioner filed his petition for special leave in this Court on April 20,1960, and also made an application on April 21, 1960, under 0. XLV, rr. 2 and 5 of the Supreme Court Rules for exemption from compliance with 0. XXI, r. 5, of those Rules. It was stated in the petition that, soon after his arrest, the petitioner throughout the trial before the Sessions Court and the hearing of the reference in the High Court, had been in naval custody and continued to be in that custody, that he had been throughout of good behavior and was ready and willing to obey any order of this Court, but that the petitioner " not being a free man it was not possible for him to comply with the requirements of r. 5 of
0. XXI of the Supreme Court Rules......... He, therefore, prayed that he may be exempted from compliance with the aforesaid rule and that his petition for special leave to appeal be posted for hearing without his surrendering to his sentence. On April 25, 1960, the special leave petition along with the application for exemption aforesaid was placed before a Division Bench which passed the following order:
After the aforesaid order of this Court, it appears that on July 6, the petitioner swore an affidavit in Bombay to the effect that his application aforesaid for exemption from compliance with the requirements of r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules had been made under a misapprehension of the legal position and that the true position had been indicated in the judgment of the Special Bench of the Bombay High Court to the effect that r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules would not apply to his case in view of the Governor's order aforesaid and that, therefore, his special leave petition be directed to be listed for admission. It is apparent that this change in the petitioner's position as regards the necessity for surrender is clearly an afterthought. Certainly, it came after the Division Bench had directed the constitutional matter to be heard as a preliminary question. That is how the matter has come before us. Before we heard the learned Advocate General of Bombay, and the learned Additional Solicitor-General on behalf of the Union of India, we enquired of Shri J. B. Dadachanji, Advocate for the petitioner, whether the petitioner was prepared to get himself released from the Governor's order in order to present himself in this Court so that the hearing of his special leave petition might proceed in the ordinary course, but he was not in a position to make a categorical answer and preferred to have the constitutional question determined on its merits. We had the assistance of Mr. C. B. Aggarwala, who very properly volunteered his services as amicus curiae to represent the other view point. In this Court also the situation was the same as in the High Court, namely, that unless there was an amicus curiae to represent the opposite view point, the parties represented before us were not contesting the validity of the Governor's order. Both here and in the High Court, it was at the instance of the Court itself that the matter has been placed for hearing on the preliminary question before dealing with the merits of the petitioner's case.
The learned Advocate General of Bombay has argued with his usual vehemence and clarity of expression that the power of pardon, including the lesser power of remission and suspension of a sentence etc. is of a plenary character and is unfettered ; that it is to be exercised not as a matter of course, but in special circumstances requiring the intervention of the Head of the Executive; that the power could be exercised at any time after the commission of an offence; that this power being in the nature of exercise of sovereign power is vested in the Head of the State and has, in some respects, been modified by statute ; that the power of pardon may be exercised unconditionally or subject to certain conditions to be imposed by the authority exercising the power; that such conditions should not be illegal or impossible of performance or against public policy. It was further argued that the power of pardon is vested in the Head of the State as an index of sovereign authority irrespective of the form of Government. Thus the President of the United States of America and Governors of States, besides, in some cases Committees, have been vested with those powers, which cannot be derogated from by a Legisla- ture. So far as India is concerned, before the Constitution came into effect such powers have been regulated by statute, of course, subject to the power of the Crown itself. After the Constitution, the power is contained in Art. 72 in respect of the President, and Art. 161 in respect of the Governor of a State. Articles 72 and 161 are without any words of limitation, unlike the power of the Supreme Court contained in Arts. 136, 142, 145 and other Articles of the Constitution. Hence, what was once a prerogative of the Crown has now or crystallized into the common law of England and statute in India'. for example, s. 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or Arts. 72 and 161 of the Constitution. He particularly emphasised that the two powers, namely, the power of the Executive to grant pardon, in its comprehensive sense, and of the Judiciary are completely apart and separate and there cannot be any question of a conflict between them, because they are essentially different, the one from the other. The power of pardon is essentially an executive action. It is exercised in aid of justice and not in defiance of it. With reference to the particular question, now before us, namely, how far the exercise of the executive power of pardon contained in those two Articles of the Constitution can be said to impinge on the judicial functions of this Court, it was argued that r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of this Court postulates the existence of a sentence of imprisonment and, as in this case, as a result of the Governor's order, there is no such sentence running there could not be any question of the one trespassing into the field of the other. Rule 5 aforesaid of this Court represents the well settled practice of this Court, as of other Courts, that a person convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment should not be permitted to be in contempt of the order of this Court, that is to say, should not be permitted to move the appellate court without surrendering to the sentence. But the petitioner is not in such contempt, because r. 5 did not apply to him. The order of sentence against him having been suspended, he is not disobeying any rule or process of this Court or of the High Court. The power of the Supreme Court to make rules is subject to two limitations, namely, (1) to any law made by Parliament and (2) the approval of the President. On the other hand, Arts. 72 and 161 enshrine the plenary powers of the sovereign State to grant pardon etc., and are not subject to any limitations. There could, therefore, be no conflict between these two, and if there were any conflict at all, the limited powers of the Court must yield to the unlimited powers of the Executive. As regards the condition imposed by the Governor, subject to which the sentence passed against the petitioner had been suspended, the condition was not illegal, because it did not offend against any peremptory or mandatory provisions of law. It is not the same thing to say that the condition was not authorised by law as to say that the condition was illegal, in the sense that it did what was forbidden by law. We were referred to the various provisions of the Indian Navy Act (Act LXII of 1957) to show that there were no provisions which could be said to have been contravened by the condition attached to the order of suspension by the Governor. Furthermore, the naval custody in which the petitioner continues had been submitted to by the petitioner and what has been consented to cannot be illegal, though it may not have been authorised by law. Lastly, it was contended that the observation of the High Court in the last paragraph of its judgment was entirely uncalled for, because once it is held, as was held by the High Court, that the Governor's order was not unconstitutional, it was not open to the High Court to make observations which would suggest that the Governor had exercised his power improperly. If the exercise of the power by the Governor is not subject to any conditions, and is not justifiable, it was not within the power of the High Court even to suggest that the Governor should not have passed the order in question. The learned Additional Solicitor General adopted the able arguments of the Advocate General and added that, in terms, there was no conflict between Arts. 142 and 161 of the Constitution. Mr. C. B. Aggarwala, to whom the Court is obliged for his able assistance to the Court, argued that the exercise of the rule making power by the Supreme Court is not a mere statutory power, but is a constitutional privilege; that the Supreme Court alone could lay down rules and conditions in accordance with which applications for special leave to appeal to the Court could be entertained ; that the material rule governing the present case was made under the constitutional power of the Supreme Court under Art. 145 and that the Advocate-General was in error in describing it as subordinate legislation ; that 'the fact that the rules made by this Court under Art. 145 of the Constitution require the approval of the President cannot convert them into rules made under a law enacted in pursuance of power conferred, either by Art. 123 or Art. 245 of the Constitution; that the underlying idea behind r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of this Court is to see that the petitioner to this Court or the appellant should remain under' the directions of the Court; that the Governor by passing the order in question has deprived the Supreme Court of its power in respect of the custody of the convicted person ; that the power under Art. 161 has to be exercised within the limits laid down by Art. 154 of the Constitution. It was also argued that the petitioner could have got his relief from this Court itself when he put in his application for special leave and that in such a situa- tion the Executive should not have intervened. In other words, the contention was that, like the Courts of Equity, which intervened in aid of justice when law was of no avail to the litigant, the Executive also should exercise their power only where the courts have not been clothed with ample power to grant adequate relief in the particular circumstances governing the case. It was further argued that on a true construction of the provisions of the law and the Constitution, it would appear that the Governor's power extends only up to a stage and no more, that is to say, the Governor could suspend the operation of the sentence only until the Supreme Court was moved by way of special leave and then it was for the Court to grant or to refuse bail to the petitioner. Once the Court has passed an order in that respect, the Governor could not intervene so as to interfere with the orders of the Court. Alternatively, it was argued that, even assuming that an order of suspension in terms made by the Governor, could at all be passed during the pendency of the application for leave to appeal to this Court, such an order could be passed only by the President, and not by the Governor. In any view of the matter, it was further argued, the Governor could pass an order contemplated by Art. 161, but could not add a condition, as he did in the present case, which was an illegal condition. It was further argued that the generality of the expressions used in s. 401 of the Criminal Procedure Code has to be out down by the specific provisions of s. 426 of that Code. In other words, when there is an appeal pending or is intended to be preferred, during that limited period, the trial court itself or the appellate court, has to exercise its judicial function in the matter of granting bail etc. ; and the appropriate Government is to stay its hands during that time. Before dealing with the main question as to what is the scope of the power conferred upon the Governor by Art. 161 of the Constitution, it will be convenient to review in a general way the law of pardon in the background of which the controversy has to be determined. Pardon is one of the many prerogatives which have been recognised since time immemorial as being vested in the sovereign, wherever the sovereignty might lie. Whether the sovereign happened to be an absolute monarch or a popular republic or a constitutional king or queen, sovereignty has always been associated with the source of power-the power to appoint or dismiss public servants, the power to declare war and conclude peace, the power to legislate and the power to adjudicate upon all kinds of disputes. The King, using the term in a most comprehensive sense, has been the symbol of the sovereignty of the State from whom emanate all power, authority and jurisdictions. As kingship was supposed to be of divine origin, an absolute king had no difficulty in proclaiming and enforcing his divine right to govern, which includes the right to rule, to administer and to dispense justice. It is a historical fact that it was this claim of divine right of kings that brought the Stuart Kings of England in conflict with Parliament as the spokesman of the people. We know that as a result of this struggle between the King, as embodiment of absolute power in all respects, and Parliament, as the champion of popular liberty, ultimately emerged the constitutional head of the Government in the person of the King who, in theory, wields all the power, but, in practice, laws are enacted by Parliament, the executive power vests in members of the Government, collectively called the Cabinet, and judicial power is vested in a Judiciary appointed by the Government in the name of His Majesty. Thus, in theory, His Majesty or Her Majesty continues to appoint the Judges of the highest courts, the members of the Government and the public servants, who hold office during the pleasure of the sovereign. As a result of historical processes emerged a clear cut division of governmental functions into executive, legislative and judicial. Thus was established the " Rule, of Law " which has been the pride of Great Britain and which was highlighted by Prof. Dicey. The Rule of Law, in contradistinction to the rule of man, includes within its wide connotation the absence of arbitrary power, submission to the ordinary law of the land, and the equal protection of the laws. As a result of the historical process aforesaid, the absolute and arbitrary power of the monarch came to be canalised into three distinct wings of the Government. There has been a progressive increase in the power, authority and jurisdiction of the three wings of the Government and a corresponding diminution of absolute and arbitrary power of the King. It may, therefore, be said that the prerogatives of the Crown in England, which were wide and varied, have been progressively curtailed with a corresponding increase in the power, authority and jurisdiction of the three wings of Government, so much so that most of the prerogatives of the Crown, though in theory they have continued to be vested in it, are now exercised in his Dame by the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. This dispersal of the Sovereign's absolute power amongst the three wings of Government has now become the norm of division of power; and the prerogative is no greater than what the law allows. In the celebrated decision of the House of Lords in the case of Attorney General v. De Keyser's Royal Hotel, Limited (1) which involved the right of the Crown by virtue of its prerogative, to. take possession of private property for administrative purposes in connection with the defence of the realm, it was held by the House of Lords that the Crown was not entitled by virtue of its prerogative or under any statute, to take possession of property belonging to a citizen for the purposes aforesaid, without paying compensation for use and occupation.
It was argued by Sir John Simon, K. C., for the respondents that:-
of England, Volume 7, Third Edition, at p. 221, in these words:-
It will be seen, however, that Arts. 72 and 161 not only deal with pardons and reprieves which were within the royal prerogative but have also included what is provided in ss. 401 and 402 of the Code. Besides the general power, there is also provision in ss. 337 and 338 of the Code to tender pardon to an accomplice under certain conditions. In this case we are primarily concerned with the extent of the power of pardon vested in the State so far as the Governor is concerned by Art. 161 of the Constitution Article 161 is in these terms:
Though Art. 161 does not make any reference to Art. 72 of the Constitution, the power of the Governor of a State to grant pardon etc. to some extent overlaps the same power of the President, particularly in the case of a sentence of death. Articles 72 and 161 are in very general terms. It is, therefore, argued that they are not subject to any limitations and the respective area of exercise of power under these two Articles is indicated separately in respect of the President and of the Governor of a State. It is further argued that the exercise of power under these two Articles is not fettered by the provisions of Arts. 142 and 145 of the, Constitution or by any other law. Article 142(1) is in these terms:-
It will be seen that it consists of two parts. The first part gives power to this Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction to pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it. The second part deals with the enforcement of the order passed by this Court. Article 145 gives power to this Court with the approval of the President to make rules for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the Court. It is obvious that the rules made under Art. 145 are in aid of the power given to this Court under Art. 142 to pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it. Rule 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of this Court was framed under Art. 145 and is in these terms:-
This rule was, in terms, introduced into the Supreme Court Rules last year and it only crystallized the preexisting practice of this Court, which is also the practice in the High Courts. That practice is based on the very sound principle which was recognised long ago by the Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature, North Western Provinces, in 1870, in the case of The Queen v. Bisheshar Pershad (1). In that case no order of conviction had been passed. Only a warrant had been issued against the accused and as the war- rant. had been returned unserved a proclamation had been issued and attachment of the property of the accused had been ordered, with a view to compelling him to surrender. The validity of the warrant had been challenged before the High Court. The High Court refused to entertain his petition until he had surrendered because he was deemed to be in contempt of a lawfully constituted authority. The accused person in pursuance of the order of the High Court surrendered and after he bad surrendered, the matter was dealt with by the High Court on its merits. But as observed above the Rules framed under Art. 145 are only in aid of the powers of this Court under Art. 142 and the main question that falls for consideration is, whether the order of suspension passed by the Governor under Art. 161 could operate when this Court had been moved for granting special leave to appeal from the judgment and order of the High Court. As soon as the petitioner put in a petition for special leave to appeal the matter became sub-judice in this Court. This Court under its Rules could insist upon the petitioner surrendering to his sentence as a condition precedent to his being heard by this Court, though this Court could dispense with and in a proper case could exempt him from the operation of that rule. It is not disputed that this Court has the power to stay the execution of the sentence and to grant bail pending the (1) Vol. 2, N.W.P. High Court Reports, P. 441.
disposal of the application for special leave to appeal. Rule 28 of 0. XXI of the Rules does not cover that period, but even so the power of the Court under Art. 142 of the Constitution to make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in this case was not disputed and it would be open to this Court even while an application for special leave is pending to grant bail under the powers it has under
any time " can only mean after conviction. It cannot mean before conviction, because there cannot be any sentence before conviction. The question then is: " Does it cover the entire period after the order of conviction and sentence even when an appeal is pending in the appellate court and s. 426 can be availed of by the appellant ?"
It is noteworthy that the reprieve granted in that case covered only the period until the grant or refusal of the petition for leave to appeal and did not go further so as to cover the period of pendency of the appeal to the Privy Council, unlike the order now impugned in this case. The power which was vested in the Crown to grant special leave to appeal to convicted persons from India has now been conferred on this Court under Art. 136. The power under Art. 136 can be exercised in respect of " any judgment, decree, determination, sentence or order in any cause or matter passed or made by any court or tribunal in the territory of India ". This wide and comprehensive power in respect of any determination by any court or tribunal must carry with it the power to pass orders incidental or ancillary to the exercise of that power. Hence the wide powers given to this Court under Art. 142 " to make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it ". As already indicated, the power of this Court to pass an order of suspension of sentence or to grant bail pending the disposal of the app- lication for special leave to appeal has not been disputed and could not have been disputed keeping in view the very wide terms in which Art. 142 is worded. When an application for special leave to appeal from a judgment and order of conviction and sentence passed by a High Court is made, this Court has been issuing orders of interim bail pending the hearing and disposal of the application for special leave as also during the pendency of the appeal to this Court after special leave has been granted. So if Mr. Seervai's argument is correct that the pendency of a special leave application in this Court makes no difference to the exercise of the power by the executive under Art. 161, then both the judiciary and the executive have to function in the same field at the same time. Mr. Seervai however contended that there could never be a conflict between the exercise of the power by the Governor under Art. 161 and by this Court under Art. 142 because the power under Art. 161 is executive power and the power under Art. 142 is judicial power and the two do not act in the same field. That in our opinion is over-simplification of the matter. It is true that the power under Art. 161 is exercised by the executive while the power under Art. 142 is that of the judiciary; but merely because one power is executive and the other is judicial, it does not follow that they can never be exercised in the same field. The field in which the power is exercised does not depend upon the authority exercising the power but upon the subject-matter. What is the power which is being exercised in this case ? The power is being exercised by the executive to suspend the sentence; that power can be exercised by this Court under Art. 142. The field in which the power is being exercised is also the same, namely, the suspension of the sentence passed upon a convicted person. It is significant that the Governor's power has been exercised in the present case by reference to the appeal which the petitioner intended to file in this Court. There can therefore be no doubt that the judicial power under Art. 142 and the Executive power under Art. 161 can within certain narrow limits be exercised in the same field. The question that immediately arises is one of harmonious construction of two provisions of the Constitution, as one is not made subject to the other by specific words in the Constitution itself As already pointed out, Art. 161 contains no words of limitation; in the same way, Art. 142 contains no words of limitation and in the fields covered by them they are unfettered. But if there is any field which is common to both, the principle of harmonious construction will. have to be adopted in order to avoid conflict between the two powers. It will be seen that the ambit of Art. 161 is very much wider and it is only in a very narrow field that the power contained in Art. 161 is also contained in Art. 142, namely, the power of suspension of sentence during the period when the matter is sub-judice in this Court. Therefore on the principle of harmonious construction and to avoid a conflict between the two powers it must be held that Art. 161 does not deal with the suspension of sentence during the time that 68 Art. 142 is in operation and the matter is sub-judice in this Court.
In this connection it is well to contrast the language of s. 209(3) and s. 295(2) of the Government of India Act, 1935. Section 209(3) gave power to the Federal Court to order a stay of execution in any case under appeal to the Court, pending the hearing of the appeal. Section 295(2) provided that nothing in this Act shall derogate from the right of His Majesty, or of the Governor General if any such right is delegated to him by His Majesty, to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishments. It may have been possible to argue on the language of s.295(2) that the prerogative exercised by His Majesty transcended the power of the Federal Court under s. 209(3);but when we compare the language of Arts. 72 and 161 with the language of s. 295(2) of the Government of India Act, we find no words like " Nothing in this Constitution " or "
Article 142(1) is as under:-
Both articles 72 and 161 give the widest power to the President or the Governor of a State as the case may be and there are no words of limitation indicated in either of the two articles. It was argued that under arts. 142 and 145(1) of the Constitution certain powers are conferred on the Supreme Court and if the articles conferring powers on the President and the Governors are read along with the power given to the Supreme Court they create a conflict and therefore to give a harmonious interpretation to all the four articles it is necessary to cut down the amplitude of the powers conferred by arts. 72 and 161 of the Constitution. In regard to suspension of sentences it will be fruitful to trace the legislative history of the relevant powers of the executive and the judiciary which arise for construction. In the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 (Act XXV of 1861) the power of the executive was confined to remission of punishments and was contained in s. 54 which was as under:-
son, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing order that the execution ,of the sentence or order appealed against be suspended and, if he is in confinement, that he be released on bail or on his own bond.
The power conferred by this section on an Appellate Court may be exercised also by the High Court in the case of any appeal by a convicted person to a Court subordinate thereto.
When the appellant is ultimately sentenced to imprisonment, penal servitude or transportation, the time during which he is so released shall be excluded in computing the term for which he is so sentenced ".
A new Criminal Procedure Code was enacted in 1898, a portion of which was subsequently amended. The section dealing with powers of suspension or remission of sentence is 401 which reads as under:-
And this sub-section was repealed by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950. The words Governor General in Council or the Local Government were suitably amended with the various constitutional changes.
The corresponding section of appellate courts is contained in a. 426 which is in Chapter XXXI dealing with appeals etc. The relevant portions of this section when quoted are as under:-
(This subsection was added later).
It may be mentioned that in the Code of 1861 the power given to the Governor General was to remit punishment to which an accused person was sentenced and the power of the appellate court was to suspend the sentence pending appeal in non- bailable offenses and to release on bail in bailable cases. In the Code of 1872 also the power of the Governor General and of the local Government was one of remission of punish- ment and the power of the appellate court was of suspension of sentences pending the appeal. In s. 401 of the Act of 1882 the legislature chose to use the words " suspension of the execution of a sentence or remit the whole or any part of punishment ". The power was discretionary and there is nothing to indicate that this power was in any way limited. But the power given to the appellate court was differently worded from what was in the previous Codes in that now it was necessary for the Courts to record reasons emphasising that the two powers-the one exercised by the executive and the other exercised by the judiciary-were two separate powers, no doubt, operating for the same purpose but exercised on different considerations and in different circumstances. Of course this does not mean that the courts did not exercise their power judicially previous to the Act of 1882.
In the Act of 1898 also, which is still the law, the same power of suspension of the execution of sentences or remission of punishments is mentioned in s. 401 and in a. 426 giving the powers of the appellate courts the words "
Thus the power of the King or of the Governor General as a delegate to grant suspension remission or commutations remained unaffected by the introduction of a federal system with division of subjects between the Centre and the Provinces. This section was in the part dealing with the provisions as to certain legal matters. Thus under the Government of India Act the Governor General in his discretion had the power (1)[1930] A.C. 124, 136.
to remit etc. sentences of death and Governors of provinces had the power in regard to all sentences passed in a province but the power of the King and of the Governor General as a delegate remained unaffected by the first sub- section of the section. Thus upto the coming into force of the Constitution the exercise of the King's prerogative remained unaffected, was plenary, unfettered and exercisable as hitherto.
Historically in England the King as the autocratic head of the Government always had the power to pardon. This was a part " of that special preeminence which the King hath over and above all other persons and out of the ordinary course of the common law, in right of his royal dignity ". Bl. Comm. (i). 239.
A pardon is said by Lord Coke to be a " work of mercy; whereby the King, either before attainder, sentence or conviction or after forgiveth any crime, offence, punishment, execution, right, title, debt or duty, temporal or ecclesiastical ". 3 Inst. 233.
The common law is thus stated in Hale's Pleas of the Crown, Vol. 2, Chapter 58, page 412:
In America the exercise of the power of pardon has been held to be governed by the same principles as are applicable to the exercise of the King's power of mercy under the English Constitution. In United States V. Wilson (3) Marshall', C. J., referring to the exercise of this power said :
Wayne, J., in Ex parte Wells (4) said:
been exercised by the King, as the Chief Executive. Prior to the Revolution, the Colonies, being in effect under the laws of England, were accustomed to the exercise of it in the various forms, as they may be found in the English books. They were of course to be applied as occasions occurred, and they constituted a part of the jurisprudence of Anglo-America. At that time of the adoption of the Constitution, American statesmen were conversant with the prerogatives exercised by the Crown. Hence when the words to grant pardons were used in the Constitution, they convey to the mind the authority as exercised by the English Crown, or its representatives in the Colonies. At that time both Englishmen and Americans attached the same meaning to the words " pardon ". In the convention which framed the Constitution, no effort was made to define or change its meaning, although it was limited in cases of impeachment.
We must then give the word the same meaning as prevailed here and in England at the time it found a place in the Constitution. This is in conformity with the principles laid down by this court in Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet.
264, 280; and in Flavell's case, 8 Watts & Serg. 197; Attorney General's brief"
confident that they could be shortly and earnestly understood ".
According to the American as also Indian Constitution the power as given to the President is not to reprieve and pardon but that he shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States except in cases of impeachment. Wayne, J., in Ex parte Well8 (1-) at page 425 has explained the difference between the meaning of these two expressions. "The first convoys only the idea of an absolute power as to the purpose or object for which it is given. The real language of the constitution is general, that is, common to the class of pardons known in the law as such whatever they may be by their denomination. We have shown that conditional pardon is one of them. A single remark from the power to grant reprieves will illustrate the point. That is not only to be used to delay a judicial sentence when the President shall think the merits of the case or some cause connected with the offender may require it, but it also extends to cases ex necessitate legis ...................... Though the reprieve in either case produces delay in the execution of a sentence ", the reprieves in the two cases are different in their legal character and different as to the causes which may induce the exercise of the power to reprieve.
In India also the makers of the Constitution were familiar with English institutions and the powers of English Kings and the exercise of their power both by the Governor General and the Governors of British India and of its provinces. It will be legitimate to draw on English law for guidance in the construction of the articles dealing with the power of the President and of the Governor in regard to pardons including the other forms of clemency comprised in. the two articles. It will not be inappropriate to say that the framers of the Indian Constitution were not only familiar and trained in British Jurisprudence but were familiar with the American Constitution and they were drafting their Constitution in English language and therefore to draw upon the American parallel would be wholly legitimate. (1) 15 L. Ed. 421, 425.
The history of the prerogative of pardons and reprieves shows that the power of the executive in the matter of pardons and reprieves and other forms of pardons irrespective of the name used is of the widest amplitude and is plenary in nature and can be exercised at any time after the commission of the offence. The power of the executive is an act of grace and clemency. It is a sovereign or governmental power which ina monarchy is inherent in the King and in a Republicin the State or the people and which may, by the Constitution, be conferred on an officer or a department. It is an executive power of the Governor and it is the same as was exercised by the colonial Gover- nors in America 67 C. J. S. 565.
Wayne, J., in the matter of Ex parte Wells (1) has described it as an act of mercy and an act of clemency applicable to pardons of every kind and form. Field, J., in Ex parte Garland (2) termed it the benign prerogative of mercy. It is the power for avoiding the execution of the judgment by reprieve or pardon whereof the former is temporary and the latter permanent. According to Willoughby's Constitution of America, Vol. III p. 1492:-
when conferred on the head of the executive is an executive power and function. The pardon may be conditional and the grant of a conditional pardon is not illegal. It has been held that the power of pardon is not subject to legislative control ; Ex parte Garland (1) ; nor is it open to the legislature to change the effect of 'pardon; United States v. Klein (2). The executive may grant pardon for good reasons or bad or for any reasons at all; its act is final and irrevocable. The Courts have no concern with the reasons which actuated the executive. This power is beyond the control of the judiciary; 39 Am. Jur. 545, ss. 43; Horwitz v. Connor (3).
Thus in England the exercise of the power by the King is the exercise of the power of mercy. The power is plenary in nature and unfettered and as far as constitutional powers are concerned it can be exercised at any time after the commission of the offence. In America the power of the executive under the Federal or State Constitution is the same in its nature as that exercised by the representative of the English Crown in America in colonial times. 67 C. J. S. 565. It has been said that executive clemency exists to afford relief from undue harshness or individual mistake in the operation or enforcement of the criminal law. It is essential in popular Governments as well as in monarchies to vest in some other party than courts the power to ameliorate or avoid particular criminal judgments and the exercise of this power is the exercise by the highest executive of his full discretion and with the confidence that he will not abuse it.
In Ex parte Garland (1), it was held that the President's pardon was not subject to legislative control,said Field, J., " the law thus conferred is unlimited . ............... It extends to every offence known to the law and may be exercised at any time after its commission.............................. The power of the President is not subject to legislative control. Congress can neither limit the effect not exclude from its effect any class of offenders. The benign prerogative (1) 18 L. Ed. 366, 370 & 371.
(2) 20 L. Ed. 519.
(3) 6 C. L. R. 1497.
of mercy resposed in him cannot be fettered by any legislative restriction.......... In Ex parts Grossman (1) it was held that there was no difference between the power of the President and that of the king in regard to pardon and at page 535 it was observed by Taft, C. J.
That case also laid down that the exercise of-the executive power to the extent of destroying the deterrent effect of judicial punishment would be to pervert it but whosoever is to make the power useful must have full discretion to exercise it and that discretion is vested in the highest officer in the nation.
In Biddle v. Vuco Perovich (2), Holmes., J., in dealing with pardons said:-
was exercised by the king and by delegation by the colonial Governors is now exercised by the highest executive in the land and that a pardon which includes a reprieve and a respite may variously be described as an act of clemency, an act of mercy, an act of grace, an exercise of the sovereign or governmental power or the determination of the ultimate authority. Therefore the principles which govern the exercise of this executive power are quite different from those which govern the exercise of the power of the courts. It may also be pointed out that the American courts have frowned upon any interference by the courts or by the legislature with the extent and effect of the prerogative of the people vested in the President in the exercise of his power of benign mercy. It was so held in Ex parte Garland (1) and United states v. Klein (2). In the former case the President bad given a pardon to rebels who had taken part in the civil war against the forces of the federation and the legislature had reversed that pardon and it was held that pardon was not subject to legislative control and in the latter which was a conditional pardon the power of the legislature was held not to be exercisable. The power of the executive can be exercised at any time. This is so in England, in America and in India. The King ", said Lord Coke, " can forgive any crime, offence, punishment or execution either before attainder, sentence or conviction or after " ; 3 Insti. 233 ; Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown bk. 2, Chapt.37. In the Indian Statute the words " any time "
May 10, 1905, but was dismissed on May 30, 1905, and a new trial was refused. On June 1, 1905, the execution of the sentence was further reprieved by the Governor until June 23, 1905. Thereupon she filed her petition in the Federal Court for a writ of habeas corpus which was dismissed. On that date the Governor further reprieved the execution of the sentence until December 8, 1905. The appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States was admitted on June 22, 1905, but the appeal was finally dismissed on November 27, 1905. One of the grounds of appeal in the Supreme Court was that the Governor, by giving the reprieve, issued his order requiring the execution while proceedings were pending in the court of the United States for her relief on habeas corpus and therefore the order was null and void and another ground was the failure of the Supreme Court of the State to grant a stay and fixing a date for execution. Both the grounds were overruled and it was held that the reprieve was to allow the cause to be heard on appeal in the Supreme Court and that the order of the Governor was not against due process clause and when the Governor had given a reprieve beyond the hearing in the State Supreme Court there was no occasion for the court to' act in the matter. This case shows that the power of reprieve is exercisable even during the period that proceedings are pending in an. appellate court.
The argument in opposition to the submissions of the learned Advocate-General was that although the power of the executive to grant pardon or reprieve or suspension of sentence was absolute and could be exercised at any time yet there was a statutory as well as a constitutional limitation on the exercise of this power which excluded the power of the executive for the period when the case of a defendant had been brought before the Supreme Court or before any other appellate court as the case may be. For the latter reference was made to a. 426 of the Criminal Procedure Code which gives the power to appellate courts to suspend a sentence pending an appeal for reasons to be recorded in writing and as to the former arts.
142 and 145 of the Constitution were referred to. Article 142 confers on the Supreme Court the power to do complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it and art. 145 gives to; the Supreme Court power to make rules with the approval of the President but subject. to any law ;Which the Parliament may pass. Under art. 145 which is the rule making power of this court, the court has made two rules which are relevant for the purpose of this appeal and they are Order 21, Rule 5 and Order 21, Rule 28 and when quoted they are as follows:-
of the highest officer of the State and may be based on policy. It is to be exercised on the ground that public good will be as well or better promoted by suspension as by the execution but it is not judicial process. The exercise of this power lies in the absolute and uncontrolled discretion of the authority in whom it is vested. The power of the courts to suspend sentences is to be exercised on judicial considerations. At Common Law, it was held in Ex parte U. S. (1) courts possessed and asserted the right to exert judicial discretion in the enforcement of the law to temporarily suspend either the imposition of sentence or its execution when imposed to the end that pardon might be procured or (1) 61 L. Ed. 129 at P. 141.
that the violation of law in other respects might be prevented. It was also held that a Federal District Court exceeds its power by ordering that execution of a sentence imposed by it upon a. plea of guilty be suspended indefinitely during good behavior upon considerations wholly extraneous to the legality of the conviction : Ex parte U. S. (1).
Marshall, C. J., in U. S. v. George Wilson (2) stated as follows:-
In Ex parte Grossman (3), it was said that administration of justice by the courts is not necessarily or always wise or considerate of circumstances which may mitigate a guilt and in order to remedy this it was thought necessary to vest this in some other authority than the court to ameliorate or avoid particular criminal judgments. The exercise of this power has the effect of destroying the deterrent effect of judicial punishment. The extent of the two powers, judicial and executive and the difference between the two has been pointed out in United State8 v. Benz (4) in which it was held that no usurpation of the pardoning power of the executive is involved in the action of a court in reducing punishment after the prisoner had served a part of the imprisonment originally im. posed. At page 358 the distinction was stated as follows:-
(1) 61 L. Ed. 129 at p. 141.
(2) 8 L. Ed. 640, 643. 644.
(3) 69 L. Ed. 527, 530. 532.535.
(4) 75 L. Ed. 354.
According to Willis " Courts may exercise the power of suspending sentence although this, like the pardoning power, partakes of the nature of an executive function; which shows that giving of suspensions of sentences is an exercise of executive power; Willis' Constitutional Law, p. 151. Clemency is the function of the executive and it is the function of the courts to construe a Statute and not to defeat it as construed.
The judicial power therefore is exercisable on judicial considerations. The courts would approach every question in regard to suspension with a, judicial eye. They are unable to look to anything which is outside the record or the facts which are proved before them. It is not their sphere to take into consideration anything which is not strictly judicial. A court knows nothing of a case except what is brought before it in accordance with the laws of procedure and evidence and consequently this is a power distinct from the power of the executive which may act, taking into consideration extra-judicial matters even on the ground that suspension, remission and commutation may be more for public good and welfare than no interference. These are all matters of public policy and matters which are not judicial and are within the power of the executive and therefore it cannot be said that the two powers operate in the same field. No doubt they may have the same effect but they operate in distinct fields, on different principles taking wholly irreconcilable factors into consideration. Taking the case of pardon it is important to note that pardon is granted for reasons other than innocence. A pardon, it has been said, 'affirms the verdict and disaffirms it not ". (28 Harvard Law Review at p. 647 by Samuel Williston).
Commutation of sentences is a power which is exercisable by the executive to ameliorate the rigors of the punishment by courts when death sentences are imposed. It was not contended that the power of commutation is not available to the executive after the sentence is passed and before an appeal is filed or pending the appellate proceedings. It has the same effect as reduction of a sentence by a court from death to one of imprisonment for life or transportation for life as it used to be. In England and in America it is exercised on the condition of acceptance by the convict but no such limitation is imposed on the power of the executive under the Indian law. But whereas the court will take into consideration only the circumstances which would justify the exercise of judicial power it is open to the executive to act on ,other grounds and the act of the executive is not subject to review by the courts, the executive being the sole judge of sufficiency of facts and of the propriety of the action and no other branch has any control over executive action.
As to suspension of sentence again in s. 426 of the Criminal Procedure Code it is expressly stated that an appellate court can suspend the sentence for reasons to be stated ; no such limitation is imposed on the executive under s. 401 of the Code. The language of the two sections themselves shows the field in which the two powers operate although the effect may be the same. It is relevant to consider in this connection the grounds on which a court acts in regard to offenses punishable with death or imprisonment for life (s.497 of Cr. P. C.) but no such restrictions impede executive action. Similarly when the Supreme Court acts under art. 142 it acts judicially and takes only those facts into consideration which are sufficient in the judicial Sense to justify the exercise of its power ; so would be the case when the power is exercised under the rules framed by the court. Thus it appears that the power of the executive and of the judiciary to exercise the power under arts. 161 and 142 or under ss. 401 and 426 are different in nature and are exercised on different considerations and even may have different effect.
Executive power exercised in regard to sentences passed by courts is in its very nature the exercise of constitutional authority which negatives the orders of the court. Every time it is exercised it conflicts with some order of the court whether it is a case of pardon or commutation of sentence or a reprieve or suspension or respite. It is an interference with some action of the court which makes the power of the executive to that extent overriding. It is for this reason that it has been said in American judgments, e. g., Ex parte Grossman(1) that although the Constitution has made the judiciary as independent of other branches as is practicable it is, as often remarked, the weakest of the three. It must look for a continuity of necessary cooperation in the possible reluctance of either of the other branches to the force of public opinion. The action of the executive interfering with sentences passed by courts is a matter which is not within the amplitude of the judicial power of the courts and whenever any action is taken by the executive, unless it is illegal, it is not justiciable nor subject to legislative control.
The power that this court exercises under Order 21, Rule 5 must also depend upon the decision of the question whether art. 145 can be used in derogation of the power given to the Governors under art. 161. As has been stated above, being subordinate legislation, it must in reality be subordinate to the provisions of the Constitution which is obvious from the fact that any revision of the articles of the Constitution will require the procedure laid down in the Constitution for its amendment whereas the rules made under the Constitution can be changed by the court itself with the approval of the President or by a Parliamentary enactment. The language of art. 161 is of the widest amplitude and applies to the various forms of clemency mentioned therein. It is not denied that the power of pardon is not affected by art. 142 and this power includes the power to reprieve. It would be an undue construction of the exercise of the power of pardon to take out from its purview that portion of it which is termed reprieve or stay of execution or suspension and respite of sentence which differs from suspension of sentences only in terminology. The construction suggested would be illogical because the plenitude of the language would remain unaffected before the petition for leave to appeal is filed and after the decision (1) 69 L. Ed- 527, 530, 532 535.
of the appeal but the power would remain suspended during the pendency of the appeal proceedings even though the power of pardon and of commutation remains intact and the suggested restriction is not borne out by the language of the article. And this construction is opposed to decisions of courts of America where the power is similar as in India. Even on the analogy of the Privy Council case Balmukand v. King Emperor (1) where reprieve was granted pending the hearing of the special leave petition, i. e., upto the date the petition was taken up, heard and decided and therefore uptil that date the reprieve was necessary and proper. In Rogers v. Peck(2) reprieve was granted for a period of time extending beyond the hearing of the appeal proceedings. If the argument as to want of the power of suspension during the period of pendency of an appeal is sustainable then the power to commute must equally be so affected because what is commutation when exercised by the executive is called reduction of sentence when ordered by the court. The two are neither different in nature nor in effect. Reference was made to a. 295 of the Government of India Act of 1935 whereby the prerogative of the King and of the Governor General as his delegate was specifically saved. Reference was also made to 8. 209(3) of that Act which gave to the Federal Court the power of stay in any case; the argument being that the prerogative power of the King and his delegate the Governor General would not be unlimited but for its being expressly saved by s. 295(2). A close examination of these provisions and the application of rules of interpretation do not support the soundness of this argument.
Section 209(3) is in Part IX The Judicature and Chapter 1 the Federal Court. It gave power to the Federal Court to stay executions in any case under appeal as follows:
the Court, pending the hearing of the appeal, and execution shall be stayed accordingly Section 295 is in Part XII Misellaneous and under sub-head Provisions as to legal matters. Section 295 provided:-
209(3), whereas the power of the King or the Governor General acting under s. 295(2) will not be so which is seemingly incongruous. Besides the words " nothing in this Act shall derogate " in s. 295(2) only emphasise the constitutional position of the King's prerogative and of his delegate and was more in the nature of ex abundanti cautela' because under constitutional practice " Roy n'est lie par ascun statute, si il ne soit expressement nosme " is a principle which has been accepted in this court qua the Union or the States. " Where the King has any prerogative, estate, right, title or interest he shall not be barred of them by the general words of an Act if be not named therein "; Broom's Maxims, p. 39 (1939 ed.); Province of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation of the City of Bombay(1), where it was held that Crown is not bound unless expressly named or is bound by " necessary implication If the argument of limitation of the King's prerogative because of these saving words is sound then it means in the Constitution Act the British Parliament did contemplate and provide that the power of the King or of the Governor General as his delegate as to suspensions, remissions or commutation would be overriding and exercisable in spite of the pendency of an appeal in the Federal Court. There are seven reasons for denying the argument of conflict between arts. 142 and 161 :-
Loveland(2):
Statute, which speaks with less perspicuity, and of which the words may be capable of such construction as by possibility to diminish the efficacy of the other provisions of the Act"
In the instant case the words of art. 161 are clear and unambiguous. It is an unsound construction to put a fetter on the plenitude of the powers given in that article by reading an earlier article which deals with the powers of a different department of Government and uses language " which speaks with less perspicuity (3)Moreover it is a relevant consideration in the matter of interpretation that the two articles are in two different parts. There is ample authority for the view that one is entitled to have regard to the indicia afforded by the arrangement of sections and from other indications; Dormer v. New Castle-upon-Tyne Corporation (2) per Slesser, L. J. The arrangement of sections into parts and their headings are substantive parts of the Act and as is pointed out by Craies on Statute Law (5th Ed.), p. 165, " they are gradually winning recognition as a kind of preamble to the enactments which they precede limiting or explaining their operation ". They may be looked to as a better key to construction than a mere preamble. Ibid p. 195. (1) 1 C.L.R. 329, 357.
(2) [1940] 2 K.B. 204, 217 (C.A.).
In Inglis v. Bobertson(1) which turned on the meaning of the Factors Act, Lord Herschell said:-
Viscount Simon, L. C., said in Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries Ltd. (2):-
These cases place accent on the principle that the articles 142(1) and 161 deal with different subjects showing operation in separate fields and were not intended to overlap so as to be restrictive of each other. (4)The language of art. 161 is general, i. e., the power extends equally to all class. of pardons known to the law whatever the nomenclature used ; Ex parte Wells (3) and therefore if the power to pardon is absolute and exercisable at any time on principles which are quite different from the principles on which judicial power is exercised then restrictions on the exercise of the lesser power of suspension for a period, during which the appeal is pending in this court would be an unjustifiable limitation on the power of the executive. It could not have been the intention of the framers that the amplitude of executive power should be restricted as to become suspended for the period of pendency of an appeal in the Supreme Court. (5)If this interpretation is-adopted it would lead to this rather incongruous result that if the appeal is pending in a Court of Session or the High Court the power of the executive will be abundant, overriding (1) [1898] A.C. 616, 630.
(2) [1940] A.C. 1114 (3) 15 L. Ed, 421, 424.
and operative during the pendency of appeals but will be restrictive when appeal is brought in the Supreme Court. (6)Article 161 is a later provision and when it was adopted the Constitution makers had already adopted art. 72 and arts. 142(1) and 145. It does not seem reasonable that by so juxtaposing the articles it was the intention of the framers to constrict the power of the executive. The rules of interpretation on this point have thus been stated:
142(1) is a general power exercisable for doing complete justice in any cause or matter. If they, i.e., arts. 161 and 142(1) deal with (1) 73 I.A. 271 (2) Criminal Appeal No. 158 Of 1956.
(3) [1891] 2 Q.B. 267, 272.
(4) [1940] 2 K. B. 204. 217 (C.A.).
(5) [1867-8] 3 C.P. 26.
the same subject matter as is contended then art. 161 must prevail over art. 142(1) which is in accord with the constitutional position as above discussed. In the circumstances of this case 1 would grant the petitioner exemption prayed for and proceed to hear the special leave petition on merits.
BY COURT: In view of the majority Judgment, the petition is dismissed.
Petition dismissed.	Total Judgement
