Chhotabhai Jethabhai Patel And Co vs The Union Of India And Anther on 11 December, 1961	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 140 to 142 of 1952.
Appeals from the judgment and order dated March 24, 1953, of the former Nagpur High Court in Misc. Petitions Nos. 1795-1796 of 1951 and 1 of 1952.
WITH Petitions Nos. 24, 25 and 93 of 1952. Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
H.N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor General of India, N.S. Bindra, R.H. Dhebar and T.M. Sen, for the respondents.
C.R. Pattabhi Raman and R. Ganapathy Iyer, for the interveners (in C.A. No. 141 of 1954).
AYYANGAR, J.-The appellants in Civil Appeal 140 of 1954 are tobacco merchants and manufacturers of biris. They own private warehouses licensed under r. 140 of the Excise Rules, 1944 at Gondia and other places in Madhya Pradesh.
ment, directs, by notification in the Official Gazette, that it shall cease to have the force of law, or
Similar passages in relation to a "duty of excise"
In our opinion, the above aptly describes and covers the point raised by the appellants in the appeals now before us.	Issue
On the 28th of February, 1951 a Bill was introduced in the House of the People, being Bill 13 of 1951 containing the financial proposals of the Government of India for the fiscal year beginning the 1st of April, 1951. Clause 7 of the Bill made provision for the amendment of the Central Excise Act (Act 1 of 1944) by way of alteration of duties on "tobacco manufactured and unmanufactured." In particular, it provided that "unmanufactured tobacco other than flue-cured and ordinarily used otherwise than for the manufacture of cigarettes" (which included tobacco intended for manufacture into biris) should be charged to an excise duty of 8 annas per lb. and it also imposed a new duty of excise on biris varying from 6 to 9 annas per lb. depending upon the weight of tobacco contained in the biris.
In pursuance of s. 7 (2) a demand was made upon the appellants on June 22, 1951 for the payment of the duty payable by them, after giving credit for the refund of the duty paid on biris which had been deleted by the Act. The appellants contested the legality of this demand by a petition under Art. 226 which they filed in the High Court at Nagpur urging that the retrospective operation given to s. 7(1) by sub-s.(2) thereof was illegal, ultra vires and unconstitutional, and besides that the provision in r. 10 of the Excise Rules which contained the machinery for enforcing the demand was not adequate to meet the situation arising out of the change in the law from the provisions of the bill to those of the Act. The learned Judges of the High Court repelled all the contentions disputing the legislative competence and the constitutionality of the legislation contained in s. 7(2) of the Finance Act of 1951, but they upheld the objection to the adequacy of the procedure for recovery based on the limited scope of r. 10 of the Excise Rules. Thereafter the Central Government, by a notification dated December 8 1951, amended the Central Excise Rules, 1944 by the addition of a new r. 104 providing machinery specially designed f r the enforcement of a demand like the one arising in the circumstances of the present case. On December 12, 1951 a further and a fresh demand was made for the payment of the duty in terms of s. 7(2)(b) of the Finance Act quoted earlier, and the appellants thereupon once again moved the High Court of Nagpur under Art. 226 challenging the validity of the demand on the very same grounds as before. This petition was heard by a Full Bench of the Court and every contention raised by the appellants including that based on the adequacy of the new r. 10A to cover the present case was rejected. The learned Judges granted a certificate under Art. 132 of the Constitution which was enabled the appellants to file this appeal. Before proceeding further it is only necessary to state that there is no material difference between the facts of the cases covered by Civil Appeals 141, 142 as well as the points raised in the Writ Petitions and that this judgment will cover and dispose of the other appeals and the petitions. We might also, at this stage mention that other parties who were similarly situated as the appellants in Civil Appeals 140 to 142 of 1954 and who had filed petitions under Art. 226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Madras which arc pending there, raising the same points as the appellant's before us, have intervened in these appeals and they have also been heard. Learned Counsel appearing for the interveners adopted the arguments urged in support of the appeal.
Mr. Pathak, learned Counsel who appeared for the appellants urged three point in support of the appeals(1) Section 7 (2) of the Finance Act, 1951 in so far as it imposed an excise duty retrospectively before the date of its enactment (April 28, 1951) was beyond the legislative competence of Parliament. The contention on this head was briefly this: The impugned tax was imposed by Parliament in purported exercise of the power to levy "a duty of excise on tobacco" within Legislative Entry 84 of Union list which reads:	Facts
G.S. Pathak, S.N. Andley, J.B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the Appellants/petitioners.
Even assuming that the nature and tendency of the duty of Excise is, as contended by Mr. Pathak that it can be passed on to the consumer, even than the complaint of the appellants that they have been deprived of that opportunity is not well founded, because of s. 64-A of the Indian Sale of Goods Act (3 of 1930), which was s. 10 in the Indian Tariff Act, 1934. It was originally taken from the British Tariff Act, 1901, 1 Edw. VII Ch.
The constitutionality of the tax and retrospective imposition of enhanced duty on tobacco was further challenged on the ground of violation of the fundamental rights of the appellants under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution which it was submitted is not saved by cl. (5) of that article because it is not a reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public. The grounds of attack may be stated in this way :
As the appellants have relied on certain American decisions where certain taxing laws operating retrospectively were tested on the touchstone of "due process of law" clause it becomes necessary to examine the extent of that doctrine. "The taxing power of Federal Government," says Prof. Willis (Constitutional Law, p. 378), "is limited by the procedural requirements of the due process clause. Notice and hearing, though not a judicial tribunal, are required where the tax is based on the value of the property. Jurisdiction, also, is a requirement for all forms of taxation, though the rules as to jurisdiction vary with the kind of tax levied." According to Willoughby, Constitution of the United States, Vol. III, p. 1875, the due process of law obliges the exercise of the taxing power to conform to the following rules :-	PetArg
It was then contended on behalf of the Government of India that an excise duty is a duty which may be imposed upon home produced goods at any state from production to consumption; and that therefore the federal legislative power extended to imposing excise duties at any stage. This is to confuse two things, the nature of excise duties and the extent of the federal legislative power to impose them ......... There can be no reason in theory why an excise duty should not be imposed even on the retail sale of an article, if the taxing Act so provides. Subject always to the legislative competence of the taxing authority, a duty on home- produced goods will obviously be imposed at the stage which the authority find to be the most convenient and the most lucrative, wherever it may be; but that is a matter of the machinery of collection, and does not affect the essential nature of the tax. The ultimate incidence of an excise duty, a typical indirect tax, must always be on the consumer, who pays as he consumes or expends; and it continues to be an excise duty, that is, a duty on home-produced or home- manufactured goods, no matter at what stage it is collected."
Learned Counsel conceded, as he had to, that even on the decision relied upon by him, the fact that owing to the operation of economic forces it was not possible for the taxpayer to pass on the burden of the tax, did not alter the nature of the imposition and detract from its being a "duty of excise". For instance, the state of the market might be such that the duty imposed upon and collected from the producer or manufacturer might not be capable of being passed on to buyers from him. Learned Counsel urged that this would not matter, as one had to have regard to "the general tendency of the tax" and "the expectation of the taxing authority" and to the possibility of its being passed on and not to the facts of any particular case which impeded the operation of natural economic forces.
It was next contended that a retrospective tax purporting to be a duty on goods when the goods had been disposed of would be a tax not under item 84, List I of the Seventh Schedule but one under item 60 of List II, i.e., tax on profession, trade, calling and employment-the submission being that the word "trade" would include manufacture. This contention was sought to be supported by the observations of Lords Davey in Commissioner of Taxation v. Kirk (3):-	RespArg
1961, December 11. The judgment of S.J. Imam, K.C. Das Gupta, Raghubar Dayal and N. Rajagopala Ayyangar, JJ., was delivered by Rajagopala Ayyangar, J., J.L. Kapur, J., delivered a separate judgment.
The same argument was Presented in a slightly different from by saying that though Parliament, generally speaking, had the power to legislate in respect of everyone of the subjects included in the relevant legislative entries whether prospectively, or retrospectively including legislation with regard to taxation, still if the retrospective levy of a taxes, altered its essential nature and identity, then the power to legislate retrospectively would be open to Parliament only if the tax in its altered from- i.e., a tax direct and personal-would be open to Parliament to impose. In the case of a "duty of excise" as the tax in the present case was, if imposed retrospectively, deprived it of its essential characteristic of being in indirect tax and a tax on goods, and so the power of Parliament to enact such retrospective legislation would depend upon whether Parliament could impose a tax on a person merely because he happened to produce goods at an antecedent date, or, happened to have had in his control goods of indigenous production at a prior date and if this could not be done, it would follow that Parliament could not impose a "duty of excise" with retrospective effect.
In support of his submission regarding the nature of an excise duty and that meaning that ought to be attributed to the expression as it occurs in Entry 84 of the union List, Mr. Pathak placed before us judgments of the Privy Council in appeals from Canada and some decisions of the American Supreme Court and of the Australian High Court.
The general line of approach of the Privy Council decisions referred by learned Counsel could be gathered from the observations of Lord Cave in City of Halifax v. Fairbanks' Estate. The impugned tax legislation was a business tax imposed by the Province of Nova Scotia to be paid by every occupier of real property for the purposes of any trade, profession, or other calling carried on for the purpose of gain, the assessment being according to the capital value of the premises. This was challenged inter alia on the ground that it was an indirect tax and therefore not within the legislative competence of the Provincial Legislature. Lord Cave said:
When therefore the validity of any Provincial tax legislation is challenged in Canada the enquiry is as regards the normal incidence of the tax whether it is "direct" or "indirect." As these expressions had a settled meaning in economic theory, the Courts had necessarily to find out whether the particular tax imposed by the Province fell within the class of "indirect" taxes or not. In such a situation naturally the classification by economists of taxes as those which are "direct" as distinct from those which are "indirect" assumed a vital role in deciding whether the tax impugned is or is not within Provincial power. As pointed out by Gwyer, C.J. in the Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna:
Similarly, Lord Simonds observed in Governor General in Council v. Province of Madras:
As Lord Simonds said in the decision, to which reference has already been made after referring to the decision of the Federal Court in the C.P. Petrol case:-
and then speaking about taxes on sale of goods the learned Lord continued:
Before dealing with the Australian decision to which Mr. Pathak drew our attention, we could conveniently dispose of the American cases which were referred to by the learned counsel bearing on the meaning of the word "excise". We might point out that the American decisions do not assist the appellant in the least since under the Constitution of the United States practically every tax other than a capitation, a poll tax or a tax on land is termed an "excise duty" and even income-tax was held to be an 'excise' until the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co. It has to be borne in mind that the American Constitution provides that direct taxes have to be apportioned among the States according to their respective populations (Art. 1, s. 2, and Art. 1, s. 9, cl.
4). Hence the attempt in the United States has been to bring taxes which according to the classification of economists would be direct taxes within the category of excise or indirect taxes which need not follow the rule as to apportionment among the States. It follows, therefore, that neither the American decisions, nor the understanding by the Courts of that country as to what a duty of excise connotes can be of any utility for deciding the content of that entry in the Indian Constitution. The relevance of the American decisions is, therefore, even remoter than the decisions from Canada which were relied on by the learned Counsel.
Mr. Pathak referred us to some of the decisions in Australia and in particular to Parton v. Milk Board (Victoria) in support of his submission that the characteristic of being an indirect tax and therefore the capability of being passed on was an essential ingredient and pre- requisite of an excise duty. In this connection it is necessary to point out that the decisions in Canada which were relied on by Mr. Pathak as aids for understanding the import of the expression "duty of excise" in Entry 84, have been treated by the Australian Courts as not helpful to determine the meaning of "excise" in s. 90 of the commonwealth of Australia Act. As explained by Wynes:
The decision in the Milk Board case follows in general the same lines as did the earlier decisions which have been detailed and discussed by Sir Maurice Gwyer C. J. in Paidanna's case. In these circumstances we do not consider it useful or necessary to discuss these decisions. Undoubtedly, there are passages in these judgments in the Australian Courts which refer to the fact that an excise duty is an instance of an indirect tax. As regards the general proposition, however, there is little controversy, but these decisions did not lay down that if by reason of the tax being levied retrospectively the duty cannot be passed on it ceased to be a duty of excise. On the other hand, there is express and high authority for the position that a duty of excise could be validly levied with retrospective effect under the Australian Constitution. The question for consideration before the privy Council in Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd. v. Irving related to the constitutional validity of the Excise Tariff Act, 1902, passed by the Commonwealth Parliament. One of the objections raised to the levy was that on the terms of the enactment which was passed on the 26th of July, 1902, the imposition of the duty could be as and from October 8, 1901, the day on which the Minister had moved a resolution to that effect in the committee of Ways & Means of the House of Representatives. The respondent before the Board who were manufacturers of refined sugar in Brisbane in the State of Queensland questioned the legality of the tax which had been demanded and paid by them in respect of the sugar produced by them between October 8, 1901, and July 26, 1902. Lord Davey delivering the judgment of the Board observed:
There is no doubt that excise duties have been referred to by the economists and in the judgments of the Privy Council as well as in the Australian decisions as an instance of an "indirect tax", but in construing the expression "duty of excise" as it occurs in Entry 84 we are not concerned so much with whether the tax is "direct" or "indirect" as upon the transaction or activity on which it is imposed. In this context one has to bear in mind the fact that the challenge to the legislative competence of the tax-levy is not directed to the imposition as a whole but to a very limited and restricted part of it. This challenge is confined (a) to the operation of the tax between the period March 1, 1951, and April 28, 1951, and (b) even in regard to this limited period, it is restricted to the imposition of the additional duty of six annas per lb. which was levied, beyond the eight annas per lb. collected from the appellants by virtue of the Finance Bill under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1931. It would seem to be rather a strange result to achieve that the tax imposed satisfies every requirement of a "duty of excise" in so far as the tax operates from and after April 28, 1951, but is not a "duty of excise" for the duration of two months before that date.
It might further be pointed out that the submission of the learned Counsel that a tax which according to economic theory is an indirect tax or a tax on goods becomes a direct and a personal tax and a tax of a different nature or category if imposed retrospectively because it was then incapable of being passed on, does not correctly represent the law as laid down by this Court. In common with duties of customs and excise, a tax on the sale of goods is another instance of a typical indirect tax Indeed Lord Thankerton pointed out in Attorney- General for British Columbia v. Kingcome Navigation Company Ltd.:
The question of the validity of the imposition of a sales tax with retrospective effect came up for consideration before this Court in the Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bihar. An argument similar to the one now presented before us was submitted to this Court in challenge of that levy which was summarized by Das, C.J., in these terms:
Dealing with this point the learned Chief Justice said :
The entire argument of Mr. Sanyal on this part of the case was rested on the observations contained in two decisions of this Court, Ramjilal v. Income-tax Officer, Mohindargarh and Laxmanappa Hanumantappa Jamkhandi, v. The Union of India. We do not understand these decisions as laying down any such broad proposition. We are further satisfied that the learned Judges could not have meant that if a law imposing a tax was outside the legislative competence of the legislature enacting it, as the argument before us appeared to suggest it could be a law under which a person could be deprived of his property under Art. 31(I) or regarding which a person could not move this Court for relief under Art. 32. Such a proposition would be contrary to a long catena of cases of this Court of which it is sufficient to refer to Mohammad Yasin v. The Town Area Committee, Jalalabad, State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., The Bengal Immunity Company Limited v. The State of Bihar and Ch. Tika Ramji v. The State of Uttar Pradesh. In all these cases the legislation imposing the tax or the fee which had been held not to have been within the legislative competence of the authority imposing the tax or the fee was struck down on the ground that those laws violated the freedom guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. Learned Counsel laid some stress on the fact that in these cases the tax or fee was held to be unconstitutional as imposing an unreasonable restraint on the right to carry on a trade or business guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g) and not as an infringement of the right to hold "property" under Art. 19(I)(f). In our opinion nothing turns on this, for it is the deprivation of the freedom "to hold property" that is the direct result of the tax and the restraint on the business by reason of the collection of the illegal tax or the procedures prescribed for such collection is only an indirect and incidental effect thereof.
Nor do we find it possible to accept even the more limited proposition that whatever be the position in regard to tax laws which lack legislative competence, once a tax law is covered by an entry in the Legislative List and does not contravene direct prohibitions like those in Arts. 276 (2) or 286 etc., such a law is immune from the limitations imposed by Part III of the Constitution.
But it does not follow that every other Article of Part III is inapplicable to tax law. Leaving aside Art. 31(2) that the provisions of a tax law within legislative competence could be impugned as offending Art. 14 is exemplified by such decisions of this Court as Suraj Mal Motha v. Sri A. V. Visvanatha Sastri and Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd., Madurai, v. Sri A. V. Visvanatha Sastri. In Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala the Kerela Land Tax Act was struck down as unconstitutional as violating the freedom guaranteed by Art. 14. It also goes without saying that if the imposition of the tax was discriminatory as contrary to Art. 15, the levy would be invalid.
In support of the submission that a tax levied with retrospective effect was unconstitutional as being an unreasonable restriction on this right to hold property (Art. 19(1)(f)). Mr. Pathak relied on the decisions in Nichols v. Coolidge (2). The tax in question was an estate duty on property passing on death and in the items to be included for computing the value of the estates was included not merely all property of which the deceased died possessed, on the date of his death but also that which he had transferred by gifts within a period of two years fore his death. This inclusion of property transferred to third persons not in contemplation of death but by the grantor in the ordinary and natural course of the transaction of his affairs so that the donees might enjoy the properties absolutely, was held to be unconstitutional as offending the rule as to "due process" contained in fifth amendment to the constitution. Justice McReynolds delivering the opinion of the Court said:
Learned Counsel also referred us to a few later decisions of the American Supreme Court in which retrospective taxation has been held arbitrary and capricious and to amount to a violation of the due process clause contained in the 5th Amendment. In regard to these decisions, two points have to be noted: (1) that the decisions of Supreme Court of the United States are not uniform and there are undoubtedly decisions of the Court of a later date which speak the other way. In Third National Bank v. White (1) the Supreme Court upheld an estate tax which operated retrospectively. It is in view of these decisions that Mr. Ballard states in an article in the Harvard Law Review (*), referring to White's case (1) "It seems accurate to say that the decision marks for practical purposes the passing of 'arbitrary retroactivity' in the field of the estate tax...........And the present status of Nichols v. Coolidge is not entirely clear......... Since the Nichols case can be distinguished on its facts, it may well give way.........In any event.......it would seem that after the White case no application of the estate tax can be successfully resisted on the score of retroactivity."
For instance in Welch v. Henry (1) which related to an enactment imposing income tax which had retrospective operation, Justice Stone delivering the Judgment of the Court referring to Nichols v. Coolidge (2) and other cases in which observations broadly stating that any retrospective tax legislation was obnoxious to the requirement of due process, stated:
In Untermyer v. Anderson (1) which was concerned with the validity of a tax on gifts which was made to operate from a date before it was enacted, Justice Holmes stated:
and Justice Brandeis made the added observations which have been repeatedly quoted in later decisions as well as in text books:
(f) that any question of the violation of Art. 31 (1) could arise. It would be seen that it is the same argument as was presented to challenge the legislative competence of Parliament to enact the legislation. Only the nomenclature employed is different and adapted to suit the need of bringing it into the fold of an impairment of fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution. As Evatt, J. observed in Broken Hill South Limited (Public Officer) v. The Commissioner of Taxation (New South Wales) (1) "It is not proper to deny to the legislature the right of solving taxation problems unfettered by legal categories." If notwithstanding that according to economic theory or doctrines propounded by economists a duty of excise does not cease to be such, merely because it is imposed at a time or in circumstances (as pointed out earlier in conjunction with a system of price control) in which it cannot be passed on one fails to see any substance in the argument that the imposition of such a tax is an unreasonable restriction on the exercise of the fundamental rights to hold property guaranteed by Art. 19 (1) (f).
The contention which was then urged was that the short-levy which led to the demand was not caused through inadvertence, error etc., which are set out in this rule and that consequently there was a defect in the operative machinery for collection of the refund. This objection of the present appellants was upheld by the Full Bench of the Nagpur High Court and it was as a result of this decision that rule 10 A was framed. This rule reads:
The same distinction was brought out in some other Canadian cases decided by the Privy Council; City of Halifax v. Estate of J. P. Fairbanks (3) which related to the nature of "Business Tax"
General for Canada (3) and Brewers & Malster's Association of Onatario v. The Attorney-General for Ontario (4) Reference was next made to an Australian case Parton v. Milk Board (Victoria) (5) where two necessary qualities of the duty of Excise were stated to be that it must be levied on goods which are in existence and the taxpayer should be able to pass it on to the consumer.
But as was pointed out by Gwyer, C.J., in the Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna (6):
Dealing with the same distinction the Privy Council said in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras (7):-
The importance of legislative practice of a country was pointed out by the Privy Council in a Canadian case Croft v. Dunphy (2) where it was held that when a power is conferred to legislate on a particular topic it is important in determining the scope of the power to have regard to what is ordinarily treated as embraced within that topic in the legislative practice in England, U.S.A. and the Dominions and of India, the Federal Court considered the nature of duty of Excise in Re The Central Provinces & Berar Sales of Motor Sprit & Lubricants Taxation Act (In re A Special Reference under s. 213 of Government of India Act, 1935) (3), generally known as the "Central Provinces" case. In that case the Act of the Provincial legislature levying a tax on retail sale of motor spirit was held to fall within item 48 in List II of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution Act and not a duty of Excise within the meaning of entry 45 of List I of that Schedule. The nature of the duty was considered by the Court. Gwyer, C. J., after referring to the distionary meaning of the word "excise" said at p. 41:-
At p. 47 the learned Chief Justice said:-
But Mr. Pathak relied on the observations of the learned Chief Justice at p. 50 where he said:-
In a subsequent case The Province of Madras v. Messrs. Boddu Paidnna & Sons(1) Gwyer, C. J., again went into the question of the nature of the duty of excise under the expression "duties of excise" and said at p. 101:-
The Privy Council described the nature of the duty of Excise in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras (1) as a duty which is primarily levied on a manufacturer or producer in respect of the commodity manufactured or produced. At p. 103 Lord Simonds referred to In re Central Provinces & Berear case (2) and to Baddu Paidanna case (3) and said:-
Thus according to the Indian cases decided on the nature of duties of excise ultimate incidence is not of any importance or relevance. In dealing with excise duty (1) there is no mention of a direct or indirect taxes; the Indian Legislature has avoided this incidence to be characteristic of the tax; (2) taxable event is the manufacture or production of goods; it is immaterial what happens to them afterwards whether they are sold, consumed, destroyed or given away; (3) it is not a necessary incidence that the manufacturer must be able to pass it on to the consumer or indemnify himself; (4) the general tendency of its being passed on may be there but it may be prohibited by the circumstances, economic or otherwise. The fact that the manufacturer has no chance to get the tax from the buyer does not affect the legality of the tax; it was so held in the case of sales tax in The Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bihar (1) where the nature of the excise duty was discussed. At page 1369 the observations of Gwyer C. J. in Boddu Paidanna case (2) and of the Privy Council in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras (3) were quoted with approval. It may be noted that in the Tata Iron & Steel Co. case (1) the tax was a retrospective tax and was imposed at a time when in the Sales Tax Act no provision was made for passing on the Sales Tax to the purchaser. In the Union of India v. Madan Gopal Kabra (4) it was pointed out that Parliament was not precluded from exercising the power of imposing a retrospective tax and therefore it was competent to make a law imposing a tax on the income of any year prior to the commencement of the Constitution. As was pointed out in that case under Arts. 245 and 346 of the Constitution read with the relevant entry in List I of Schedule VII Parliament is empowered to make laws with regard to taxes and no limitation or restriction is imposed in regard to retrospective legislation. See Sargood Bros. v. The Commonwealth (1) where retrospective laws about the levying of Customs were held valid. See also Welch v. Henry (2) On the ground of retrospectivity alone therefore the tax is not unconstitutional.
In National Association of Local Government Officers v. Bolton Corporation (4) Lord Wrights in interpreting the word "trade" in s. 11 of the Industrial Courts Act, 1919, said:-
But this letter case has no application because there the word "trade" was interpreted in relation to a section of a particular Act and trade in that context has quite a different meaning. In Skinner v. Jack Breach Limited (5), Lord Hewart, C. J. in interpreting the word "trade" in Trade Boards Act held that the word "trade" indicates a process of buying and selling but it was by no means an exhaustive definition. It might also mean a calling or industry or class of skilled labour.
This section provides for the recovery by the seller of the amount of increase in duty from the purchaser where the increase takes effect subsequent to the contract and for the right of the purchaser to recover from the seller the duty in cases where there is a similar decrease and this right exists both before the delivery is given, taken and price received or paid as the case may be : Narayanan Chettiar v. Kidar Sahib(1). Counsel for the appellants attempted to counter this submission by relying upon a judgment of the Privy Council in Prbhudas v. Ganidada (2). In that case the Government duty had not been reduced but the Buyer claimed that it had constructively been decreased because the tariff valuation had been reduced and so constructively it must be reckoned that there was a decrease in the duty on the goods sold. This contention was negatived by the Privy Council and it was held that a change of duty means a change in the rate of duty, and not a change of tariff value. Thus assuming that the contention of the appellants is correct as to the nature of the excise duty it cannot be said that in the present case the appellants were deprived of the opportunity of recovering the additional duty from the purchaser and therefore the duty lost its character of being excise duty and was transformed into a different tax. This argument of the appellants is therefore without substance and must be overruled.
(Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 2, 8th Ed.p. 987.) Chief Justice Marshall said in M'Culloch v. Maryland (2) :-
See also Graves v. Schmidlapp(2) (per Chief Justice Stone).
In Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule(3) the Court said:-
Again in Veazie Bank v. Fenno (4), it was said :-
In Patton v. Brady(1), the Court observed:-
In Welch v. Henry(2), at p. 94 it was observed :-
Thus according to American view (1) the power to tax is an attribute of sovereignty; (2) tax is an rateable contribution of each individual in a State towards the amount of revenue which is essential for the existence and operation of a public governing body; (3) it being essential for the very existence of an organised State, it may be exercised on objects to the utmost extent to which the legislature may choose to carry it and (4) the needs of the revenue are only known to the legislature and the court cannot enquire into the necessity of imposing a tax or the objects on which the imposition should be made or the extent of the imposition. In the very nature of things the courts are unable to go into the propriety, extent or economics of a particular tax or the policy underlying it, which must depend upon a multitude of circumstances, which can only be known to the government or the legislature.
In some American decisions retroactive tax laws were held to be inconsistent with due process : Nichols v. Coolidge(1); Helvering v. Helwholz(2) Blodgett v. Holden (3). But the decision in those cases rested on the ground that the tax could not reasonably be anticipated by the taxpayer at the time of the voluntary act which the statute later made the taxable event e.g., the gift by the descendent of the whole or a part of his interest in property. As was explained in Welch v. Henry(4) at p. 93 :
In that case the retroactive operation of a tax on dividends was upheld and the objection on the ground of inconvenience in being called upon, after the customary time for levy and payment of the tax had passed, to bear a governmental burden of which he had no warning and which he did not anticipate was held to be unsustainable. The contention that the retroactive application of the Revenue Acts is a denial of the due process guaranteed by the Constitution has not been accepted in America as an invariable rule. Welsh v. Henry(1) and the other cases there cited.
The doctrine of due process of law has received various interpretations in America which have not always been consistent. Sometimes it has favoured personal liberty and sometimes social control sometimes personal liberty as a matter of substance. Sometimes it has protected personal liberty by extending due process to matters of substance and sometimes it has protected social control by broadening the scope of police power or the power of taxation or the power of eminent domain. Willis' Constitutional Law, p. 659. Brandeis J., in Untermyer v. Anderson(2) dealing with the presumption of validity of a taxing statute observed :
It was because of the varying meanings and concepts which have from time to time been attached to "due process of law" that the framers of the Indian Constitution did not adopt it in the Constitution; on the other hand they tried to give more defined boundaries to the area of fundamental rights in Arts. 19 and 31 which deal with rights of property and in Arts. 19, 20, 21 and 22 which relate to protection of personal liberty and this Court rejected it in A. K. Gopalan's case (1) and in the State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose (2).
As has already been said the power to tax is the legal capacity of the State to raise from all those subject to its authority a certain amount of revenue essential so the existence and operation of government. A tax is not a penalty but a contribution of monies for governmental purposes by persons who may be residents or non-residents citizens or non citizens, living persons or legal personae who are privileged to enjoy its benefits, but those are not co-relative. It implies an equality of burden and regular distribution of expenses of government among the persons taxed. It is levied by authority of law equitably, uniformly or in echelons on all persons subject to it.
Again at p. 653 he observed :-
A similar decision was given and similar language used by Mahajan, C.J., in Laxmanappa Hanumantappa v. Union of India (1) :-
Ramjilal's case (2) was quoted with approval in Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (3). Thus early after the establishment of this Court opinion was expressed excluding the applicability of fundamental rights in Part III to taxing Statutes. But it is important to notice that the Article which was sought to be applied in those cases was Art. 31 (1) which deals with deprivation of property and not Art. 19 which is regulatory of the rights of a citizen of personal liberty, property and avocation.
It was contended that the impugned tax illegally deprives the appellants of their property and was therefore unconstitutional. In support reference was made to Suraj Mal Mohta & Co. v. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri (1) (under Art.
14); Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Sri A. V. Viswanatha Sastri (2) (under Art. 14); Purshottam Govindji Halai v. Shree B. M. Desai, Additional Collector of Bombay (3) (under Arts. 14 and 21); M. Ct. Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (4) (under Art. 14); A. Thangal Kunju Mudaliar v. M. Venkatchalam Potti (5) (under Art.
14); Bidi Supply Co. v. The Union of India (6) (under Art. 14); Panna Lal Binjraj v. Union of India (7) (under Arts. 14 and 19(1)(g);) and Collector of Malabar v. Erimal Ebrahim Hajee (8). These are the cases in which the validity of taxation laws was attacked under the Articles above mentioned.
In Panna Lal Binjraj v. The Union of India (7), the assault was not against the imposition or the vires of the tax but against the vires of s. 5(7A) of the Indian Income-tax Act which empowers the Commissioner of Income-tax to transfer any case from one Income-tax Officer subordinate to him to another and empowers the Central Board of Revenue to transfer any case from one Income-tax officer to another. This attack was based on the contravention of Arts. 14 and 19(1)(g). It was held that the discretion vested in the authorities empowered to make the transfer is not discriminatory and there was no interference with the right of the citizen to carry on his trade or calling. In collector of Malabar v. Erimal Ebrahim Hajee (8) the attack against the recovery of income-tax under s. 46 (2) of the Income-tax Act was based on Arts. 14, 19 and 22. There again the question for decision was not the imposition of the tax but the mode of recovery and at Page 976 this ground of attack was rejected and reference was there made to the State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh (1); Purshottam Govindji Halai v. Shree B. M. Desai, Additional Collector of Bombay (2). Another case relied upon by the appellant's counsel was Western India Theatres v. The Cantonment Board, Poona, (3) in which the tax was imposed on cinema houses with larger seating capacity and the attack was on the ground of Art. 14 but that was repelled. The appellant's counsel also referred to the Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (4) where the vires of the sales tax imposed on inter- State transactions was attacked. The High Court in the case had held that the petition under Art. 226 was misconceived overlooking the fact that the contention raised was that in so far as the tax purported to act on non-residents in respect of inter-State sales it was ultra vires of the Constitution. At. p. 619, Das, C. J., observed :-
The question of the applicability of Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution to taxing matters was considered in K. T. Moopil Nair v. The State of Kerala (6). That was a case in which a tax at a flat rate was levied on forest lands in the State of Kerala and this Court by majority held that the tax so imposed was unconstitutional on the ground of infringement of Arts. 14 and 19(1)(f). The reasons given by the learned Chief Justice were:
The provisions of the Act were held in the majority judgment to be confiscatory. It was observed by the learned Chief Justice at p. 559:-
Thus the impugned statute in that case was held to be violative of Art. 19(1)(f) because its procedural part made no provision for giving a hearing to the assessees or for appeal nor was the Assessing Authority required to act judicially and the imposition though called a tax was in effect confiscatory and therefore a colourable piece of legislation. Sarkar, J., in his minority judgment remarked that reasonableness of the rate was not assailed but what was assailed was the imposition of a flat rate per acre without any reference to productivity.
Fourthly: The power to tax is an attribute of sovereignty and it is an accepted principle that the exercise of that power is not subject to judicial control because no Constitutional Government can exist without the power to raise money for its needs and the only security against abuse is in the structure of the Government. That power carries with it the power to determine when and how the tax shall be levied. S. Ananthakrishnan v. The State of Madras (1), M'Culloch v. The State of Maryland (2). There is no indication that the Indian Constitution has rejected or modified the American concept of the sovereignty of the State in regard to the power of taxation.
Seventhly: In American due process which has a variable concept has not been applied to retrospective operation of tax laws except to tax on voluntary gifts of property and that also was doubted in Welch v. Henry (1).
Eleventhly: To put it in the words of the American Supreme Court in Odgen v. Saunders(1) "It is but a decent respect due to the wisdom the integrity and the patriotism of the legislative body, by which law is passed to presume in favour of its validity, until its violation of the Constitution is proved beyond all reasonable doubt".
Twelfthly: The challenge to the legality of the tax in dispute is not based and is unsustainable on the ground of specific limitation or prohibition on Parliamentary power but has been raised on the ground of the infringement of an article containing the principles of the State's power of control. The cases dealing with legislative incapacity are inapplicable to the latter ground of assault. Cases such as Mohammad Yasin v. The Town Area Committee, Jalalabad(2) (a case of a licence fee which is not a tax), The State of Bombay v. United Motors India Ltd.(3)(a case of inter-State trade) and Bengal Immunity Co. case (4) (which was also a case of inter-State trade and some of the provision of the impugned Act there were held to be unreasonable restriction on the right to carry on trade) and Ch. Tika Ramji's case (5) (a case dealing with the imposition of the restriction on the right to purchase except through a particular society) were not cases in which the imposition of a tax was challenged on the ground of infringement of Art. 19(1)(f).	Precedent
Section 3 of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1931 (Act XVI of 1931) enacted "Where a bill introduced into the Indian Parliament provided for the imposition or increase of a duty of excise the Central Government might cause to be inserted in the bill a declaration that it was expedient in the public interest that any provision of the bill relating to such imposition or increase shall have immediate effect under this Act". A declaration under this section was made in respect of the provision for imposing the duties on tobacco under cl. 7 of the bill already adverted to. The effect of such a declaration was stated in s. 4 of Act XVI of 1931 in the following terms:-
(c) if it has not already ceased to have the force of law under clause (a) or clause (b), then on the expiry of the sixtieth day after the day on which the Bill containing it was introduced." In compliance with this law the appellants paid the excise duty at the rates imposed under cl. 7 of the bill and obtained clearance certificates in regard to the tobacco moved out from their warehouses from and after March 1, 1951. Bill 13 of 1951 was passed into law as the Indian Finance Act 1951 (Act XXIII of 1951 on April 28, 1951 but as passed, changes were effected in the duty proposed in the bill, as a result of certain alterations suggested by the Select Committee. Under s. 7 (1) of the Finance Act 1951 while the excise duty on biris was abandoned, the duty on unmanufactured tobacco (other than flue-cured and used in the manufacture of cigarettes) was increased to 14 annas per lb. from the rate of 8 annas per lb. in the bill. Consequential provisions were enacted in s. 7 (2) of the Finance Act which read:
First as to the decisions relating to the Canadian constitution though learned Counsel referred us to several decisions on the interpretation of the word "excise" in connection with the distinction between direct and indirect taxes in most of the British North America Act, 1867, we do not think it necessary to refer to all of them.
Under the Indian Constitution the scheme of division of the taxing powers between the Union and the States is not based on any criterion dependent on the incidence of the tax. Sir Maurice Gwyer in In re the Central Provinces and Berar Act XIV of 1938 speaking of the word "excise" as occurring in the legislative lists in the Government of India Act (and for this purpose there is no variation in the lists in Schedule VII of the Constitution) said:
In view of this clear exposition of the content of the term "duty of excise" in the Indian setting we think, no assistance can be derived for the meaning ascribed and the characteristics attributed to it in the decision construing the relative taxing powers of the Dominion and the Provinces under the British North America Act 1867.
The impediment to the duty being passed on might be due not merely to private bargains between the parties or abnormal economic situations such as the market for a commodity being a buyers' market. Such impediments may be brought about by the operation of other laws which Parliament might enact, such for instance, as control over prices. If in such a situation were the price which the producer might charge his buyer is fixed by the statute, say under the Essential Supplies Act, and a "duty of excise" is later imposed on the manufacturer, it could not be said that the duty imposed would not answer the description of an "excise duty". Learned Counsel had really no answer to the situation created by such a control of economy except to say that it would be an abnormal economic situation. It could hardly be open to argument that a tax levied on a manufacturer could be stated not to be a "duty of excise", merely because by reason of the operation of other laws the tax payer was not permitted to pass on the tax-levy. The retrospective levy of a tax would be one further instance of such inability to pass on, which doses not alter the real nature or true character of the duty.
This provision originally formed s. 10 of the Tariff Act VIII of 1894 and was subsequently enacted as s. 10 in the Indian Tariff Act of 1934 (cl Act XXXII of 1934). The object of the statutory provision is that where contracts for the sale of goods are entered into and the price payable therefor determined on the basis of existing rates of duty-either of excise or of customs-neither party shall be prejudiced or advantaged by reason of the increase or decrease of the duty. The question as to the scope of s. 10 of the Tariff Act of 1894 came up for consideration before a Bench of the Madras High Court whose decision is reported in Narayanan v, Kadir Sahib (1). The suit out of which the second appeal before the High Court arose was by a buyer of salt for the refund of salt-excise duty which had been reduced after the date of the contract. The transaction of sale between the plaintiff and the defendant took place on March 5, 1922, and the price payable by the plaintiff was based on the rate of duty prevailing on that date. Subsequent thereto the Government of India reduced the duty on salt from Rs. 5/- to Rs. 2/8/- per bag and this was to have effect from a date prior to March 5, 1922. The defendant-firm (the sellers) had obtained from the Government refund of the duty on the salt sold by them to the plaintiff. It was to recover this amount of duty that the suit was filed by the buyer. The learned Judges held that on the terms of s, 10 of the Tariff Act of 1894 (indentical with s. 64A of the Sale of Goods Act) the fact that the contract was no longer executory but that delivery had been made and the price paid, was no bar to the plaintiff succeeding in his suit.
It will be seen that s. 64A is in two parts:
31 whether such laws be within legislative competence or not, as also whether or not such laws were repugnant to Part III of the Constitution.
Before adverting to the decisions on which reliance was placed for this position two things might he pointed out: (1) that Art. 265 merely enacts that all taxation-the imposition, levy and collection shall be by law; and (2) that the Article beyond excluding purely executive action does not by itself lay down any criterion for determining the validity of such a law to justify any contention that the criteria laid down exclude others to be found elsewhere in the Constitution for laws in general. If by reason of Art. 265 every tax has to be imposed by "law" it would appear to follow that it could only be imposed by a law which is valid by conformity to the criteria laid down in the relevant Articles of the Constitution. These are that the law should be (1) within the legislative competence of the legislature being covered by the legislative entries in Schedule VII of the Constitution; (2) the law should not be prohibited by any particular provision of the Constitution such as for example, Arts. 276(2), 286 etc., and (3) the law or the relevant portion thereof should not be invalid under Art. 13 for repugnancy to those freedoms which are guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution which are relevant to the subject matter of the law. The reference therefore to Art. 265 does not lead necessarily to the result envisaged by Mr. Sanyal.
Counsel for the appellants has raised two questions against the legality of the taxes; (1) The Parliament had no power to make a retrospective legislation while making a law under item 84 of List I so as to affect goods that had been cleared from the warehouses after payment of proper duties at the rates prevailing on the date that the goods were cleared because (a) Parliament's power to make retrospective laws is subject to constitutional limitations, namely, the language of item 84 of List I; (b) duty of excise as defined in the Constitution and its nature and character is such that it is not capable of being exercised after the goods on which it is imposed are no longer in possession of the warehousemen and after they have passed into the common stock of the country; (2) legislation of this character imposes an unreasonable restriction under Art. 19 (1) (f); and (3) r. 10-A does not apply to the facts of the case and does not authorise the collection of the duty imposed.
The first point relates to the legislative competency of Parliament. Item 84 of List I provides: Item 84 "Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India..." In the corresponding item under the Government of India Act, 1935, the same language was used so that the nature of the duties remains the same both under the Constitution and under the Government of India Act, 1935 Section 3 of the Act empowers the levying of duties specified in the First Scheduled. The relevant portion of that section is as follows:-
The Excise duty in England came to be imposed as a scheme of revenue and taxing device by Pym and approved by the Long Parliament. It consisted of charges on wine and tobacco and some other articles were added later. The basic principle of duties of Excise was that they were taxes on the production and manufacture of articles which could not be taxed through the customs house. The revenue derived from that source is called excise revenue proper. In England it was later on extended to comprise other taxes but the fundamental conception of the term is that it is a tax on articles produced or manufactured in the country. It was in this sense that the word "duty of excise" was understood in Australia (Peterswalad v. Bartley (1).
The duty of Excise in item 84 should be given the widest construction unless for some reason it is cut down either by the terms of that item itself or by other Parts of the Constitution. The legislative history of the duty of Excise shows the nature of the tax. The word "trade" in item 60 of List II has reference to the carrying on of an activity in the nature of buying and selling and may in a different context mean a calling or an industry. Therefore reading the two items together it is obvious that item 84 deals with taxes on goods manufactured or produced and item 60 deals with the carrying on of trade i.e., an activity in the nature of buying and selling and the Act in its pith and substance relates to duty on goods manufactured or produced and has no relationship with item 60 of List II.
7. Section 64A of the Indian Sale of Goods Act is as follows :-
The constitutionality of the duty of excise was challenged in the present case on the ground of violation of Art. 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution. he argument is that a taxing law under Art. 265 is as much a law as any other and therefore falls within the definition of law under Art. 13(3)(a), and if it contravenes any of the fundamental rights under Part III, then to the extent of the contravention it is void. Counsel relied on the second Kochuni case (3).
Article 19 guarantees personal freedoms subject to certain restrictions. Its relevant portion is as follows:
In the Indian Constitution there is an exhaustive enunciation and distribution of legislative powers, including powers as to taxation, between the State Legislatures and Parliament. Subjects of taxation are distributed in the three Legislative Lists and areas of the respective fields of Parliament and State Legislatures as to taxes are defined. In Parts XII and XIII limitations on legislative competence of the various legislatures as to taxation are indicated and emphasis is placed on the preservation of the economic unity of India. Article 265 is in Chapter XII and provides :-
Undoubtedly Moopil Nair's case (1) did hold that a law under Art. 265 was also a law within Art. 13 and if it contravened Art. 14, it was liable to be struck down and that such law must also pass the test of the limitations prescribed in Part III of the Constitution but it did not lay down that all Articles in Part III would be applicable to taxation laws nor did it decide contrary to Ramjilal's case (2) that Art. 31 (1) would apply to taxation law which is otherwise invalid. But it is difficult to hold that a regulatory Article like Art. 19(1) was intended to limit the powers of the Legislature to impose taxes and thus to discharge its duty in regard to country's financial needs and policies.
That was a case where the Income-tax Officer issued a certificate under s. 46 (2) of the Income-tax Act and the Collector proceeded to recover under s. 48 of Madras Revenue Recovery Act.
Fifthly: Article 19 (1) declares the right of a citizen and cl. (5) prescribes its limits. If a taxation statute is within Art. 19(1)(f) it must be capable of being upheld as a reasonable restriction on the holding of property etc. On the submission of the appellants all taxes will be restrictions. If they are restrictions then their reasonableness will be justiciable depending upon the appreciation of established facts. How are the courts to judge ? All the necessary data for determining reasonableness can never be before a court which in the very nature of things is available only to the legislature. Can the court say that a particular tax is excessive or unreasonable or can the court say which particular source should be taxed and which particular income group should bear the burden of taxation or what the policy of the State as to taxation should be. It would seem therefore that the reasonableness of tax laws is not justiciable and therefore they cannot fall within clause (5) of Art. 19. Article 19(1)(f) and cl. 5 are part of one scheme and the former is incapable of operating where the latter is inoperative. If considerations of Art. 19(5) are foreign to taxing laws Art. 19(1)(f) can have no application to them.
Eighthly: Retroactive duty of excise will be a valid imposition in the case of persons who have not sold their tobacco between the period of the introduction of the bill and the enactment of the Finance Act but will be invalid in the case of persons placed as the appellants.	Section
In view of what has been said above the cases decided in Canada or Australia cannot have any application.
At this stage an examination of the extent of the State's power of taxation will be helpful. This power is one of the three governmental powers of the State; the other two being police power and power of eminent domain.
These principles of taxation are not peculiar to America but are accepted in all countries which have parliamentary democracies and govern the Indian taxation system also.
The appellants alleged that they had sold their goods during the period when the Finance Bill was before Parliament. Variations in the rates of duties are not unexpected, it being within the power of Parliament to do so both prospectively and retrospectively. It is not suggested that such variations are unknown in legislative practice or that the legislators were not entitled to amend a money bill as introduced. If the appellants' contention is sustained then it will mean the deprivation of Parliament of its right to choose the objects of taxation and therefore Parliament will only vary the rates of duties proposed by the Executive or the time of their effectiveness at the peril of their being declared invalid although they may be within its legislative competence and may in its opinion be necessary for the carrying out of its policies or subserve the proper governance of the country.
The above opinion is not in accord with the opinion of this court in A. K. Gopalan's case (1); Ram Singh v. State of Delhi (2); State of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji (3); The Daily Express case (4) and The Hamdard Dawakhana case (5).
The contention of infringement of the appellants' right under Art. 19(1) (f) is unsound and must be rejected and the reasons are these:-
Secondly: All taxation, as shown by its very nature and object, is in the interest of the general public because it is a contribution for governmental expenditure from all persons who in some measure are entitled to its benefit.
Thirdly: There is no means or measure for determining the reasonableness of the restrictions which is an objective determination. The needs of the revenue cannot be known to the courts and cannot be determined by them, and the sources of revenue are entirely within the knowledge of the legislature and it is for that department of the State to determine how the burden will be distributed and why, because that department is the policy making body and is familiar with the economics and the resources of the country and its needs. It is for that department in its discretion to select anything for taxation or to exclude it. Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. II, p. 986 (note).
Sixthly: Applicability of Art. 19(1)(f) to taxation laws will mean that laws which are otherwise valid will be inapplicable to citizens but will be applicable to non-citizens. At any rate such law will operate differentially between one set of taxpayers and another i.e., between citizens and non-citizens. This will violate the very principles of due process relied upon by the appellants.
Tenthly: It has been held that Art. 31 is inapplicable to deprivation by taxation. Ramjilal's case (2); Lakshmanppa Hanumantappa v. The Union of India (3); and taxation laws are expressly excluded from the operation of Art. 31(2) by cl. 5(b)(i) of that Article. If the appellants' contention is correct then deprivation although not protected under Art. 31 will be subject to regulatory control under Art. 19(1)(f).
I, therefore, agree that appeals be dismissed with costs. One hearing fee.
Appeal dismissed.	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 140 to 142 of 1952.
Appeals from the judgment and order dated March 24, 1953, of the former Nagpur High Court in Misc. Petitions Nos. 1795-1796 of 1951 and 1 of 1952.
WITH Petitions Nos. 24, 25 and 93 of 1952. Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
G.S. Pathak, S.N. Andley, J.B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the Appellants/petitioners.
H.N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor General of India, N.S. Bindra, R.H. Dhebar and T.M. Sen, for the respondents.
C.R. Pattabhi Raman and R. Ganapathy Iyer, for the interveners (in C.A. No. 141 of 1954).
1961, December 11. The judgment of S.J. Imam, K.C. Das Gupta, Raghubar Dayal and N. Rajagopala Ayyangar, JJ., was delivered by Rajagopala Ayyangar, J., J.L. Kapur, J., delivered a separate judgment.
AYYANGAR, J.-The appellants in Civil Appeal 140 of 1954 are tobacco merchants and manufacturers of biris. They own private warehouses licensed under r. 140 of the Excise Rules, 1944 at Gondia and other places in Madhya Pradesh.
On the 28th of February, 1951 a Bill was introduced in the House of the People, being Bill 13 of 1951 containing the financial proposals of the Government of India for the fiscal year beginning the 1st of April, 1951. Clause 7 of the Bill made provision for the amendment of the Central Excise Act (Act 1 of 1944) by way of alteration of duties on "tobacco manufactured and unmanufactured." In particular, it provided that "unmanufactured tobacco other than flue-cured and ordinarily used otherwise than for the manufacture of cigarettes" (which included tobacco intended for manufacture into biris) should be charged to an excise duty of 8 annas per lb. and it also imposed a new duty of excise on biris varying from 6 to 9 annas per lb. depending upon the weight of tobacco contained in the biris.
Section 3 of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1931 (Act XVI of 1931) enacted "Where a bill introduced into the Indian Parliament provided for the imposition or increase of a duty of excise the Central Government might cause to be inserted in the bill a declaration that it was expedient in the public interest that any provision of the bill relating to such imposition or increase shall have immediate effect under this Act". A declaration under this section was made in respect of the provision for imposing the duties on tobacco under cl. 7 of the bill already adverted to. The effect of such a declaration was stated in s. 4 of Act XVI of 1931 in the following terms:-
ment, directs, by notification in the Official Gazette, that it shall cease to have the force of law, or
(c) if it has not already ceased to have the force of law under clause (a) or clause (b), then on the expiry of the sixtieth day after the day on which the Bill containing it was introduced." In compliance with this law the appellants paid the excise duty at the rates imposed under cl. 7 of the bill and obtained clearance certificates in regard to the tobacco moved out from their warehouses from and after March 1, 1951. Bill 13 of 1951 was passed into law as the Indian Finance Act 1951 (Act XXIII of 1951 on April 28, 1951 but as passed, changes were effected in the duty proposed in the bill, as a result of certain alterations suggested by the Select Committee. Under s. 7 (1) of the Finance Act 1951 while the excise duty on biris was abandoned, the duty on unmanufactured tobacco (other than flue-cured and used in the manufacture of cigarettes) was increased to 14 annas per lb. from the rate of 8 annas per lb. in the bill. Consequential provisions were enacted in s. 7 (2) of the Finance Act which read:
In pursuance of s. 7 (2) a demand was made upon the appellants on June 22, 1951 for the payment of the duty payable by them, after giving credit for the refund of the duty paid on biris which had been deleted by the Act. The appellants contested the legality of this demand by a petition under Art. 226 which they filed in the High Court at Nagpur urging that the retrospective operation given to s. 7(1) by sub-s.(2) thereof was illegal, ultra vires and unconstitutional, and besides that the provision in r. 10 of the Excise Rules which contained the machinery for enforcing the demand was not adequate to meet the situation arising out of the change in the law from the provisions of the bill to those of the Act. The learned Judges of the High Court repelled all the contentions disputing the legislative competence and the constitutionality of the legislation contained in s. 7(2) of the Finance Act of 1951, but they upheld the objection to the adequacy of the procedure for recovery based on the limited scope of r. 10 of the Excise Rules. Thereafter the Central Government, by a notification dated December 8 1951, amended the Central Excise Rules, 1944 by the addition of a new r. 104 providing machinery specially designed f r the enforcement of a demand like the one arising in the circumstances of the present case. On December 12, 1951 a further and a fresh demand was made for the payment of the duty in terms of s. 7(2)(b) of the Finance Act quoted earlier, and the appellants thereupon once again moved the High Court of Nagpur under Art. 226 challenging the validity of the demand on the very same grounds as before. This petition was heard by a Full Bench of the Court and every contention raised by the appellants including that based on the adequacy of the new r. 10A to cover the present case was rejected. The learned Judges granted a certificate under Art. 132 of the Constitution which was enabled the appellants to file this appeal. Before proceeding further it is only necessary to state that there is no material difference between the facts of the cases covered by Civil Appeals 141, 142 as well as the points raised in the Writ Petitions and that this judgment will cover and dispose of the other appeals and the petitions. We might also, at this stage mention that other parties who were similarly situated as the appellants in Civil Appeals 140 to 142 of 1954 and who had filed petitions under Art. 226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Madras which arc pending there, raising the same points as the appellant's before us, have intervened in these appeals and they have also been heard. Learned Counsel appearing for the interveners adopted the arguments urged in support of the appeal.
Mr. Pathak, learned Counsel who appeared for the appellants urged three point in support of the appeals(1) Section 7 (2) of the Finance Act, 1951 in so far as it imposed an excise duty retrospectively before the date of its enactment (April 28, 1951) was beyond the legislative competence of Parliament. The contention on this head was briefly this: The impugned tax was imposed by Parliament in purported exercise of the power to levy "a duty of excise on tobacco" within Legislative Entry 84 of Union list which reads:
The same argument was Presented in a slightly different from by saying that though Parliament, generally speaking, had the power to legislate in respect of everyone of the subjects included in the relevant legislative entries whether prospectively, or retrospectively including legislation with regard to taxation, still if the retrospective levy of a taxes, altered its essential nature and identity, then the power to legislate retrospectively would be open to Parliament only if the tax in its altered from- i.e., a tax direct and personal-would be open to Parliament to impose. In the case of a "duty of excise" as the tax in the present case was, if imposed retrospectively, deprived it of its essential characteristic of being in indirect tax and a tax on goods, and so the power of Parliament to enact such retrospective legislation would depend upon whether Parliament could impose a tax on a person merely because he happened to produce goods at an antecedent date, or, happened to have had in his control goods of indigenous production at a prior date and if this could not be done, it would follow that Parliament could not impose a "duty of excise" with retrospective effect.
In support of his submission regarding the nature of an excise duty and that meaning that ought to be attributed to the expression as it occurs in Entry 84 of the union List, Mr. Pathak placed before us judgments of the Privy Council in appeals from Canada and some decisions of the American Supreme Court and of the Australian High Court.
First as to the decisions relating to the Canadian constitution though learned Counsel referred us to several decisions on the interpretation of the word "excise" in connection with the distinction between direct and indirect taxes in most of the British North America Act, 1867, we do not think it necessary to refer to all of them.
The general line of approach of the Privy Council decisions referred by learned Counsel could be gathered from the observations of Lord Cave in City of Halifax v. Fairbanks' Estate. The impugned tax legislation was a business tax imposed by the Province of Nova Scotia to be paid by every occupier of real property for the purposes of any trade, profession, or other calling carried on for the purpose of gain, the assessment being according to the capital value of the premises. This was challenged inter alia on the ground that it was an indirect tax and therefore not within the legislative competence of the Provincial Legislature. Lord Cave said:
Similar passages in relation to a "duty of excise"
When therefore the validity of any Provincial tax legislation is challenged in Canada the enquiry is as regards the normal incidence of the tax whether it is "direct" or "indirect." As these expressions had a settled meaning in economic theory, the Courts had necessarily to find out whether the particular tax imposed by the Province fell within the class of "indirect" taxes or not. In such a situation naturally the classification by economists of taxes as those which are "direct" as distinct from those which are "indirect" assumed a vital role in deciding whether the tax impugned is or is not within Provincial power. As pointed out by Gwyer, C.J. in the Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna:
Similarly, Lord Simonds observed in Governor General in Council v. Province of Madras:
Under the Indian Constitution the scheme of division of the taxing powers between the Union and the States is not based on any criterion dependent on the incidence of the tax. Sir Maurice Gwyer in In re the Central Provinces and Berar Act XIV of 1938 speaking of the word "excise" as occurring in the legislative lists in the Government of India Act (and for this purpose there is no variation in the lists in Schedule VII of the Constitution) said:
It was then contended on behalf of the Government of India that an excise duty is a duty which may be imposed upon home produced goods at any state from production to consumption; and that therefore the federal legislative power extended to imposing excise duties at any stage. This is to confuse two things, the nature of excise duties and the extent of the federal legislative power to impose them ......... There can be no reason in theory why an excise duty should not be imposed even on the retail sale of an article, if the taxing Act so provides. Subject always to the legislative competence of the taxing authority, a duty on home- produced goods will obviously be imposed at the stage which the authority find to be the most convenient and the most lucrative, wherever it may be; but that is a matter of the machinery of collection, and does not affect the essential nature of the tax. The ultimate incidence of an excise duty, a typical indirect tax, must always be on the consumer, who pays as he consumes or expends; and it continues to be an excise duty, that is, a duty on home-produced or home- manufactured goods, no matter at what stage it is collected."
As Lord Simonds said in the decision, to which reference has already been made after referring to the decision of the Federal Court in the C.P. Petrol case:-
and then speaking about taxes on sale of goods the learned Lord continued:
In view of this clear exposition of the content of the term "duty of excise" in the Indian setting we think, no assistance can be derived for the meaning ascribed and the characteristics attributed to it in the decision construing the relative taxing powers of the Dominion and the Provinces under the British North America Act 1867.
Before dealing with the Australian decision to which Mr. Pathak drew our attention, we could conveniently dispose of the American cases which were referred to by the learned counsel bearing on the meaning of the word "excise". We might point out that the American decisions do not assist the appellant in the least since under the Constitution of the United States practically every tax other than a capitation, a poll tax or a tax on land is termed an "excise duty" and even income-tax was held to be an 'excise' until the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co. It has to be borne in mind that the American Constitution provides that direct taxes have to be apportioned among the States according to their respective populations (Art. 1, s. 2, and Art. 1, s. 9, cl.
4). Hence the attempt in the United States has been to bring taxes which according to the classification of economists would be direct taxes within the category of excise or indirect taxes which need not follow the rule as to apportionment among the States. It follows, therefore, that neither the American decisions, nor the understanding by the Courts of that country as to what a duty of excise connotes can be of any utility for deciding the content of that entry in the Indian Constitution. The relevance of the American decisions is, therefore, even remoter than the decisions from Canada which were relied on by the learned Counsel.
Mr. Pathak referred us to some of the decisions in Australia and in particular to Parton v. Milk Board (Victoria) in support of his submission that the characteristic of being an indirect tax and therefore the capability of being passed on was an essential ingredient and pre- requisite of an excise duty. In this connection it is necessary to point out that the decisions in Canada which were relied on by Mr. Pathak as aids for understanding the import of the expression "duty of excise" in Entry 84, have been treated by the Australian Courts as not helpful to determine the meaning of "excise" in s. 90 of the commonwealth of Australia Act. As explained by Wynes:
The decision in the Milk Board case follows in general the same lines as did the earlier decisions which have been detailed and discussed by Sir Maurice Gwyer C. J. in Paidanna's case. In these circumstances we do not consider it useful or necessary to discuss these decisions. Undoubtedly, there are passages in these judgments in the Australian Courts which refer to the fact that an excise duty is an instance of an indirect tax. As regards the general proposition, however, there is little controversy, but these decisions did not lay down that if by reason of the tax being levied retrospectively the duty cannot be passed on it ceased to be a duty of excise. On the other hand, there is express and high authority for the position that a duty of excise could be validly levied with retrospective effect under the Australian Constitution. The question for consideration before the privy Council in Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd. v. Irving related to the constitutional validity of the Excise Tariff Act, 1902, passed by the Commonwealth Parliament. One of the objections raised to the levy was that on the terms of the enactment which was passed on the 26th of July, 1902, the imposition of the duty could be as and from October 8, 1901, the day on which the Minister had moved a resolution to that effect in the committee of Ways & Means of the House of Representatives. The respondent before the Board who were manufacturers of refined sugar in Brisbane in the State of Queensland questioned the legality of the tax which had been demanded and paid by them in respect of the sugar produced by them between October 8, 1901, and July 26, 1902. Lord Davey delivering the judgment of the Board observed:
In our opinion, the above aptly describes and covers the point raised by the appellants in the appeals now before us.
There is no doubt that excise duties have been referred to by the economists and in the judgments of the Privy Council as well as in the Australian decisions as an instance of an "indirect tax", but in construing the expression "duty of excise" as it occurs in Entry 84 we are not concerned so much with whether the tax is "direct" or "indirect" as upon the transaction or activity on which it is imposed. In this context one has to bear in mind the fact that the challenge to the legislative competence of the tax-levy is not directed to the imposition as a whole but to a very limited and restricted part of it. This challenge is confined (a) to the operation of the tax between the period March 1, 1951, and April 28, 1951, and (b) even in regard to this limited period, it is restricted to the imposition of the additional duty of six annas per lb. which was levied, beyond the eight annas per lb. collected from the appellants by virtue of the Finance Bill under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1931. It would seem to be rather a strange result to achieve that the tax imposed satisfies every requirement of a "duty of excise" in so far as the tax operates from and after April 28, 1951, but is not a "duty of excise" for the duration of two months before that date.
Learned Counsel conceded, as he had to, that even on the decision relied upon by him, the fact that owing to the operation of economic forces it was not possible for the taxpayer to pass on the burden of the tax, did not alter the nature of the imposition and detract from its being a "duty of excise". For instance, the state of the market might be such that the duty imposed upon and collected from the producer or manufacturer might not be capable of being passed on to buyers from him. Learned Counsel urged that this would not matter, as one had to have regard to "the general tendency of the tax" and "the expectation of the taxing authority" and to the possibility of its being passed on and not to the facts of any particular case which impeded the operation of natural economic forces.
The impediment to the duty being passed on might be due not merely to private bargains between the parties or abnormal economic situations such as the market for a commodity being a buyers' market. Such impediments may be brought about by the operation of other laws which Parliament might enact, such for instance, as control over prices. If in such a situation were the price which the producer might charge his buyer is fixed by the statute, say under the Essential Supplies Act, and a "duty of excise" is later imposed on the manufacturer, it could not be said that the duty imposed would not answer the description of an "excise duty". Learned Counsel had really no answer to the situation created by such a control of economy except to say that it would be an abnormal economic situation. It could hardly be open to argument that a tax levied on a manufacturer could be stated not to be a "duty of excise", merely because by reason of the operation of other laws the tax payer was not permitted to pass on the tax-levy. The retrospective levy of a tax would be one further instance of such inability to pass on, which doses not alter the real nature or true character of the duty.
It might further be pointed out that the submission of the learned Counsel that a tax which according to economic theory is an indirect tax or a tax on goods becomes a direct and a personal tax and a tax of a different nature or category if imposed retrospectively because it was then incapable of being passed on, does not correctly represent the law as laid down by this Court. In common with duties of customs and excise, a tax on the sale of goods is another instance of a typical indirect tax Indeed Lord Thankerton pointed out in Attorney- General for British Columbia v. Kingcome Navigation Company Ltd.:
The question of the validity of the imposition of a sales tax with retrospective effect came up for consideration before this Court in the Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bihar. An argument similar to the one now presented before us was submitted to this Court in challenge of that levy which was summarized by Das, C.J., in these terms:
Dealing with this point the learned Chief Justice said :
In our judgment this passage covers the argument regarding a duty of excise getting its essential nature altered and ceasing to be a duty of excise if imposed retrospectively. The submission, therefore, lacks any force and is rejected.
It is also necessary to refer to one further matter : Even assuming that the learned Counsel is right in his submission, that to be a duty of excise within Entry 84 of the Union List the taxing authority should have expected the tax to be passed on, we consider that learned Counsel is not right in submitting that condition is not satisfied in the case of the levy now impugned. The provisions of the impugned enactment have to be read in the light of s. 64A of the Sale of Goods Act which enacts:
This provision originally formed s. 10 of the Tariff Act VIII of 1894 and was subsequently enacted as s. 10 in the Indian Tariff Act of 1934 (cl Act XXXII of 1934). The object of the statutory provision is that where contracts for the sale of goods are entered into and the price payable therefor determined on the basis of existing rates of duty-either of excise or of customs-neither party shall be prejudiced or advantaged by reason of the increase or decrease of the duty. The question as to the scope of s. 10 of the Tariff Act of 1894 came up for consideration before a Bench of the Madras High Court whose decision is reported in Narayanan v, Kadir Sahib (1). The suit out of which the second appeal before the High Court arose was by a buyer of salt for the refund of salt-excise duty which had been reduced after the date of the contract. The transaction of sale between the plaintiff and the defendant took place on March 5, 1922, and the price payable by the plaintiff was based on the rate of duty prevailing on that date. Subsequent thereto the Government of India reduced the duty on salt from Rs. 5/- to Rs. 2/8/- per bag and this was to have effect from a date prior to March 5, 1922. The defendant-firm (the sellers) had obtained from the Government refund of the duty on the salt sold by them to the plaintiff. It was to recover this amount of duty that the suit was filed by the buyer. The learned Judges held that on the terms of s, 10 of the Tariff Act of 1894 (indentical with s. 64A of the Sale of Goods Act) the fact that the contract was no longer executory but that delivery had been made and the price paid, was no bar to the plaintiff succeeding in his suit.
It will be seen that s. 64A is in two parts:
31 whether such laws be within legislative competence or not, as also whether or not such laws were repugnant to Part III of the Constitution.
Before adverting to the decisions on which reliance was placed for this position two things might he pointed out: (1) that Art. 265 merely enacts that all taxation-the imposition, levy and collection shall be by law; and (2) that the Article beyond excluding purely executive action does not by itself lay down any criterion for determining the validity of such a law to justify any contention that the criteria laid down exclude others to be found elsewhere in the Constitution for laws in general. If by reason of Art. 265 every tax has to be imposed by "law" it would appear to follow that it could only be imposed by a law which is valid by conformity to the criteria laid down in the relevant Articles of the Constitution. These are that the law should be (1) within the legislative competence of the legislature being covered by the legislative entries in Schedule VII of the Constitution; (2) the law should not be prohibited by any particular provision of the Constitution such as for example, Arts. 276(2), 286 etc., and (3) the law or the relevant portion thereof should not be invalid under Art. 13 for repugnancy to those freedoms which are guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution which are relevant to the subject matter of the law. The reference therefore to Art. 265 does not lead necessarily to the result envisaged by Mr. Sanyal.
The entire argument of Mr. Sanyal on this part of the case was rested on the observations contained in two decisions of this Court, Ramjilal v. Income-tax Officer, Mohindargarh and Laxmanappa Hanumantappa Jamkhandi, v. The Union of India. We do not understand these decisions as laying down any such broad proposition. We are further satisfied that the learned Judges could not have meant that if a law imposing a tax was outside the legislative competence of the legislature enacting it, as the argument before us appeared to suggest it could be a law under which a person could be deprived of his property under Art. 31(I) or regarding which a person could not move this Court for relief under Art. 32. Such a proposition would be contrary to a long catena of cases of this Court of which it is sufficient to refer to Mohammad Yasin v. The Town Area Committee, Jalalabad, State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., The Bengal Immunity Company Limited v. The State of Bihar and Ch. Tika Ramji v. The State of Uttar Pradesh. In all these cases the legislation imposing the tax or the fee which had been held not to have been within the legislative competence of the authority imposing the tax or the fee was struck down on the ground that those laws violated the freedom guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. Learned Counsel laid some stress on the fact that in these cases the tax or fee was held to be unconstitutional as imposing an unreasonable restraint on the right to carry on a trade or business guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g) and not as an infringement of the right to hold "property" under Art. 19(I)(f). In our opinion nothing turns on this, for it is the deprivation of the freedom "to hold property" that is the direct result of the tax and the restraint on the business by reason of the collection of the illegal tax or the procedures prescribed for such collection is only an indirect and incidental effect thereof.
Nor do we find it possible to accept even the more limited proposition that whatever be the position in regard to tax laws which lack legislative competence, once a tax law is covered by an entry in the Legislative List and does not contravene direct prohibitions like those in Arts. 276 (2) or 286 etc., such a law is immune from the limitations imposed by Part III of the Constitution.
Mr. Sanyal is right in his submission that the levying of taxes though it might involve taking private property for a public use is entirely distinct from the power of eminent domain which is covered by Art. 31(1)(2) and that the saving in Art. 31(5)(b) (i) of such laws is really by way of abundant caution. It has been stated that where "property is taken under a taxing power, the persons so taxed may be said to be compensated for their contribution by the general benefits which they receive from the existence and operation of Government. But this is not to say that the burden of a tax that may be constitutionally laid upon an individual needs to be justified by a showing that he, individually will receive benefit from the expenditure of the proceeds of the tax, and much less that the degree of that burden may be measured by the amount of benefit that the tax payer is excepted to receive (1)". It would, therefore, be obvious that a tax law need not satisfy the tests of Art. 31(2).
But it does not follow that every other Article of Part III is inapplicable to tax law. Leaving aside Art. 31(2) that the provisions of a tax law within legislative competence could be impugned as offending Art. 14 is exemplified by such decisions of this Court as Suraj Mal Motha v. Sri A. V. Visvanatha Sastri and Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd., Madurai, v. Sri A. V. Visvanatha Sastri. In Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala the Kerela Land Tax Act was struck down as unconstitutional as violating the freedom guaranteed by Art. 14. It also goes without saying that if the imposition of the tax was discriminatory as contrary to Art. 15, the levy would be invalid.
It might very well be that a distinction might have to be drawn between the legality of the quantum of a tax levied which might not be open to challenge under Art. 19(1)(f) and the incidence of the tax or the procedure prescribed therein either for the assessment or the collection which might be open for being tested with reference to all the freedoms including that contained in Art. 19(1)(f). In fact in Moopil nair v. State of Kerala (1) already referred to, certain provisions of the Act therein challenged which prescribed the procedure for the levy of the tax were struck down on the ground of being obnoxious to Art. 19(1)(f). Having regard to the very limited controversy before us we do not consider it necessary to embark on any further or more detailed examination of this question, except to say that we cannot accept the argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General that by reason of Art. 265 tax laws are outside Part III of the Constitution.
In support of the submission that a tax levied with retrospective effect was unconstitutional as being an unreasonable restriction on this right to hold property (Art. 19(1)(f)). Mr. Pathak relied on the decisions in Nichols v. Coolidge (2). The tax in question was an estate duty on property passing on death and in the items to be included for computing the value of the estates was included not merely all property of which the deceased died possessed, on the date of his death but also that which he had transferred by gifts within a period of two years fore his death. This inclusion of property transferred to third persons not in contemplation of death but by the grantor in the ordinary and natural course of the transaction of his affairs so that the donees might enjoy the properties absolutely, was held to be unconstitutional as offending the rule as to "due process" contained in fifth amendment to the constitution. Justice McReynolds delivering the opinion of the Court said:
Learned Counsel also referred us to a few later decisions of the American Supreme Court in which retrospective taxation has been held arbitrary and capricious and to amount to a violation of the due process clause contained in the 5th Amendment. In regard to these decisions, two points have to be noted: (1) that the decisions of Supreme Court of the United States are not uniform and there are undoubtedly decisions of the Court of a later date which speak the other way. In Third National Bank v. White (1) the Supreme Court upheld an estate tax which operated retrospectively. It is in view of these decisions that Mr. Ballard states in an article in the Harvard Law Review (*), referring to White's case (1) "It seems accurate to say that the decision marks for practical purposes the passing of 'arbitrary retroactivity' in the field of the estate tax...........And the present status of Nichols v. Coolidge is not entirely clear......... Since the Nichols case can be distinguished on its facts, it may well give way.........In any event.......it would seem that after the White case no application of the estate tax can be successfully resisted on the score of retroactivity."
For instance in Welch v. Henry (1) which related to an enactment imposing income tax which had retrospective operation, Justice Stone delivering the Judgment of the Court referring to Nichols v. Coolidge (2) and other cases in which observations broadly stating that any retrospective tax legislation was obnoxious to the requirement of due process, stated:
In Untermyer v. Anderson (1) which was concerned with the validity of a tax on gifts which was made to operate from a date before it was enacted, Justice Holmes stated:
and Justice Brandeis made the added observations which have been repeatedly quoted in later decisions as well as in text books:
It would thus be seen that even under the constitution of the United States of America the unconstitutionality of a retrospective tax is rested on what has been termed "the vague contours of the 5th Amendment." Whereas under the Indian Constitution that grounds on which infraction of the rights a property is to be tested not by the flexible rule of "due process" but on the more precise criteria set out in Art. 19(5), mere retrospectivity in the imposition of the tax cannot per se render the Law unconstitutional on the ground of its infringing the right to hold property under Art. 19(1)(f) or depriving the person of property under Art. 31(1). If on the one hand, the tax enactment in question were beyond legislative competence of the Union or a State necessarily different considerations arise. Such unauthorised imposition would undoubtedly not be a reasonable restriction on the right to hold property beside being an unreasonable restraint on the carrying on of business, if the tax in question is one which is laid on a person in respect of his business activity.
Mr. Pathak also presented his argument on this head in a slightly different form. He submitted that the Constitution-makers had contemplated that a duty of excise would be imposed only when the manufacturer or the producer was in possession and control of the goods at the moment of the imposition, and therefore would be in a position to pass it on and obtain payment from the purchaser of the duty paid by him to State. The imposition of the levy retrospectively however deprive him of this benefit of passing on the burden which he would normally have. This restriction or impairment of his right to pass on the duty, he urged rendered the restriction imposed on him in the shape of the obligation to pay the duty unreasonable. Learned Counsel admitted that as the imposition would yield to the Exchequer more money, the restriction on appellants' right to hold property could not be denied to be in the 'interest of the general public" within Art. 19(5) but his submission was that it lacked the character of "reasonableness" because it deprived him of the right to pass on the tax to others. It was further admitted that it was only if learned Counsel was right in his submission regarding the infraction of Art. 19 (1)
(f) that any question of the violation of Art. 31 (1) could arise. It would be seen that it is the same argument as was presented to challenge the legislative competence of Parliament to enact the legislation. Only the nomenclature employed is different and adapted to suit the need of bringing it into the fold of an impairment of fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution. As Evatt, J. observed in Broken Hill South Limited (Public Officer) v. The Commissioner of Taxation (New South Wales) (1) "It is not proper to deny to the legislature the right of solving taxation problems unfettered by legal categories." If notwithstanding that according to economic theory or doctrines propounded by economists a duty of excise does not cease to be such, merely because it is imposed at a time or in circumstances (as pointed out earlier in conjunction with a system of price control) in which it cannot be passed on one fails to see any substance in the argument that the imposition of such a tax is an unreasonable restriction on the exercise of the fundamental rights to hold property guaranteed by Art. 19 (1) (f).
The last of the points urged was that r. 10A was not apt to cover the recovery of the duty which was a subject of demand dated December 12, 1951. The learned Judges of the High Court rejected this submission and, in our opinion, correctly. Rule 10 under which the first demand of June 22, 1951, was made ran:
The contention which was then urged was that the short-levy which led to the demand was not caused through inadvertence, error etc., which are set out in this rule and that consequently there was a defect in the operative machinery for collection of the refund. This objection of the present appellants was upheld by the Full Bench of the Nagpur High Court and it was as a result of this decision that rule 10 A was framed. This rule reads:
After the introduction of this rule a fresh demand was made on December 12, 1951, for excess duty on the tobacco cleared. The appellants again filed a petition in the High Court of Nagpur which was decided against them and against that judgment the appellants have come to this court on a certificate under Art. 132 of the Constitution. The question submitted to this Court is as to the validity of the said tax on the ground of its repugnancy to the Constitution of India.
Counsel for the appellants has raised two questions against the legality of the taxes; (1) The Parliament had no power to make a retrospective legislation while making a law under item 84 of List I so as to affect goods that had been cleared from the warehouses after payment of proper duties at the rates prevailing on the date that the goods were cleared because (a) Parliament's power to make retrospective laws is subject to constitutional limitations, namely, the language of item 84 of List I; (b) duty of excise as defined in the Constitution and its nature and character is such that it is not capable of being exercised after the goods on which it is imposed are no longer in possession of the warehousemen and after they have passed into the common stock of the country; (2) legislation of this character imposes an unreasonable restriction under Art. 19 (1) (f); and (3) r. 10-A does not apply to the facts of the case and does not authorise the collection of the duty imposed.
The first point relates to the legislative competency of Parliament. Item 84 of List I provides: Item 84 "Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India..." In the corresponding item under the Government of India Act, 1935, the same language was used so that the nature of the duties remains the same both under the Constitution and under the Government of India Act, 1935 Section 3 of the Act empowers the levying of duties specified in the First Scheduled. The relevant portion of that section is as follows:-
The same distinction was brought out in some other Canadian cases decided by the Privy Council; City of Halifax v. Estate of J. P. Fairbanks (3) which related to the nature of "Business Tax"
General for Canada (3) and Brewers & Malster's Association of Onatario v. The Attorney-General for Ontario (4) Reference was next made to an Australian case Parton v. Milk Board (Victoria) (5) where two necessary qualities of the duty of Excise were stated to be that it must be levied on goods which are in existence and the taxpayer should be able to pass it on to the consumer.
But as was pointed out by Gwyer, C.J., in the Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna (6):
Dealing with the same distinction the Privy Council said in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras (7):-
The Excise duty in England came to be imposed as a scheme of revenue and taxing device by Pym and approved by the Long Parliament. It consisted of charges on wine and tobacco and some other articles were added later. The basic principle of duties of Excise was that they were taxes on the production and manufacture of articles which could not be taxed through the customs house. The revenue derived from that source is called excise revenue proper. In England it was later on extended to comprise other taxes but the fundamental conception of the term is that it is a tax on articles produced or manufactured in the country. It was in this sense that the word "duty of excise" was understood in Australia (Peterswalad v. Bartley (1).
The importance of legislative practice of a country was pointed out by the Privy Council in a Canadian case Croft v. Dunphy (2) where it was held that when a power is conferred to legislate on a particular topic it is important in determining the scope of the power to have regard to what is ordinarily treated as embraced within that topic in the legislative practice in England, U.S.A. and the Dominions and of India, the Federal Court considered the nature of duty of Excise in Re The Central Provinces & Berar Sales of Motor Sprit & Lubricants Taxation Act (In re A Special Reference under s. 213 of Government of India Act, 1935) (3), generally known as the "Central Provinces" case. In that case the Act of the Provincial legislature levying a tax on retail sale of motor spirit was held to fall within item 48 in List II of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution Act and not a duty of Excise within the meaning of entry 45 of List I of that Schedule. The nature of the duty was considered by the Court. Gwyer, C. J., after referring to the distionary meaning of the word "excise" said at p. 41:-
At p. 47 the learned Chief Justice said:-
But Mr. Pathak relied on the observations of the learned Chief Justice at p. 50 where he said:-
But these observations only mean this that when there is a competition between the duty, imposed at the stage of manufacture of production and a tax imposed on sales thereafter, the sphere of the Central and the Provincial Legislatures comes into operation but, as the previous passages, show, it does not in any manner vary the meaning of the word "excise" nor does it accept a further qualification which is sought to be included in that phrase as a necessary quality of that tax that unless it is capable of being passed on to the consumer or the person taxed can indemnify, himself, it is not a duty of excise. At p. 47, the learned Chief Justice observed that in the expression "duties of excise"
In a subsequent case The Province of Madras v. Messrs. Boddu Paidnna & Sons(1) Gwyer, C. J., again went into the question of the nature of the duty of excise under the expression "duties of excise" and said at p. 101:-
The Privy Council described the nature of the duty of Excise in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras (1) as a duty which is primarily levied on a manufacturer or producer in respect of the commodity manufactured or produced. At p. 103 Lord Simonds referred to In re Central Provinces & Berear case (2) and to Baddu Paidanna case (3) and said:-
Thus according to the Indian cases decided on the nature of duties of excise ultimate incidence is not of any importance or relevance. In dealing with excise duty (1) there is no mention of a direct or indirect taxes; the Indian Legislature has avoided this incidence to be characteristic of the tax; (2) taxable event is the manufacture or production of goods; it is immaterial what happens to them afterwards whether they are sold, consumed, destroyed or given away; (3) it is not a necessary incidence that the manufacturer must be able to pass it on to the consumer or indemnify himself; (4) the general tendency of its being passed on may be there but it may be prohibited by the circumstances, economic or otherwise. The fact that the manufacturer has no chance to get the tax from the buyer does not affect the legality of the tax; it was so held in the case of sales tax in The Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bihar (1) where the nature of the excise duty was discussed. At page 1369 the observations of Gwyer C. J. in Boddu Paidanna case (2) and of the Privy Council in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras (3) were quoted with approval. It may be noted that in the Tata Iron & Steel Co. case (1) the tax was a retrospective tax and was imposed at a time when in the Sales Tax Act no provision was made for passing on the Sales Tax to the purchaser. In the Union of India v. Madan Gopal Kabra (4) it was pointed out that Parliament was not precluded from exercising the power of imposing a retrospective tax and therefore it was competent to make a law imposing a tax on the income of any year prior to the commencement of the Constitution. As was pointed out in that case under Arts. 245 and 346 of the Constitution read with the relevant entry in List I of Schedule VII Parliament is empowered to make laws with regard to taxes and no limitation or restriction is imposed in regard to retrospective legislation. See Sargood Bros. v. The Commonwealth (1) where retrospective laws about the levying of Customs were held valid. See also Welch v. Henry (2) On the ground of retrospectivity alone therefore the tax is not unconstitutional.
In view of what has been said above the cases decided in Canada or Australia cannot have any application.
It was next contended that a retrospective tax purporting to be a duty on goods when the goods had been disposed of would be a tax not under item 84, List I of the Seventh Schedule but one under item 60 of List II, i.e., tax on profession, trade, calling and employment-the submission being that the word "trade" would include manufacture. This contention was sought to be supported by the observations of Lords Davey in Commissioner of Taxation v. Kirk (3):-
In National Association of Local Government Officers v. Bolton Corporation (4) Lord Wrights in interpreting the word "trade" in s. 11 of the Industrial Courts Act, 1919, said:-
But this letter case has no application because there the word "trade" was interpreted in relation to a section of a particular Act and trade in that context has quite a different meaning. In Skinner v. Jack Breach Limited (5), Lord Hewart, C. J. in interpreting the word "trade" in Trade Boards Act held that the word "trade" indicates a process of buying and selling but it was by no means an exhaustive definition. It might also mean a calling or industry or class of skilled labour.
The duty of Excise in item 84 should be given the widest construction unless for some reason it is cut down either by the terms of that item itself or by other Parts of the Constitution. The legislative history of the duty of Excise shows the nature of the tax. The word "trade" in item 60 of List II has reference to the carrying on of an activity in the nature of buying and selling and may in a different context mean a calling or an industry. Therefore reading the two items together it is obvious that item 84 deals with taxes on goods manufactured or produced and item 60 deals with the carrying on of trade i.e., an activity in the nature of buying and selling and the Act in its pith and substance relates to duty on goods manufactured or produced and has no relationship with item 60 of List II.
Even assuming that the nature and tendency of the duty of Excise is, as contended by Mr. Pathak that it can be passed on to the consumer, even than the complaint of the appellants that they have been deprived of that opportunity is not well founded, because of s. 64-A of the Indian Sale of Goods Act (3 of 1930), which was s. 10 in the Indian Tariff Act, 1934. It was originally taken from the British Tariff Act, 1901, 1 Edw. VII Ch.
7. Section 64A of the Indian Sale of Goods Act is as follows :-
This section provides for the recovery by the seller of the amount of increase in duty from the purchaser where the increase takes effect subsequent to the contract and for the right of the purchaser to recover from the seller the duty in cases where there is a similar decrease and this right exists both before the delivery is given, taken and price received or paid as the case may be : Narayanan Chettiar v. Kidar Sahib(1). Counsel for the appellants attempted to counter this submission by relying upon a judgment of the Privy Council in Prbhudas v. Ganidada (2). In that case the Government duty had not been reduced but the Buyer claimed that it had constructively been decreased because the tariff valuation had been reduced and so constructively it must be reckoned that there was a decrease in the duty on the goods sold. This contention was negatived by the Privy Council and it was held that a change of duty means a change in the rate of duty, and not a change of tariff value. Thus assuming that the contention of the appellants is correct as to the nature of the excise duty it cannot be said that in the present case the appellants were deprived of the opportunity of recovering the additional duty from the purchaser and therefore the duty lost its character of being excise duty and was transformed into a different tax. This argument of the appellants is therefore without substance and must be overruled.
The constitutionality of the tax and retrospective imposition of enhanced duty on tobacco was further challenged on the ground of violation of the fundamental rights of the appellants under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution which it was submitted is not saved by cl. (5) of that article because it is not a reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public. The grounds of attack may be stated in this way :
At this stage an examination of the extent of the State's power of taxation will be helpful. This power is one of the three governmental powers of the State; the other two being police power and power of eminent domain.
The power of taxation is the legal capacity of government to impose charges upon persons or their property to raise revenue for governmental purposes. A tax is neither a penalty imposed on the taxpayer nor a liability which he assumes by contract. It is but a way of apportioning the cost of government among those who in some measure are privileged to enjoy its benefits and must bear its burdens. Welch v. Henry (1), but the constitutionality of a tax does not depend upon a showing of benefits ; protection and taxation are not correlative terms. Willis Constitutional, Law, p. 224 : Tax is levied against the person and not against property. Property only serves as a basis for computing the measure of each person's liability. Weaver on Constitutional Law, p. 513 :
(Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 2, 8th Ed.p. 987.) Chief Justice Marshall said in M'Culloch v. Maryland (2) :-
See also Graves v. Schmidlapp(2) (per Chief Justice Stone).
In Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule(3) the Court said:-
Again in Veazie Bank v. Fenno (4), it was said :-
In Patton v. Brady(1), the Court observed:-
In Welch v. Henry(2), at p. 94 it was observed :-
Thus according to American view (1) the power to tax is an attribute of sovereignty; (2) tax is an rateable contribution of each individual in a State towards the amount of revenue which is essential for the existence and operation of a public governing body; (3) it being essential for the very existence of an organised State, it may be exercised on objects to the utmost extent to which the legislature may choose to carry it and (4) the needs of the revenue are only known to the legislature and the court cannot enquire into the necessity of imposing a tax or the objects on which the imposition should be made or the extent of the imposition. In the very nature of things the courts are unable to go into the propriety, extent or economics of a particular tax or the policy underlying it, which must depend upon a multitude of circumstances, which can only be known to the government or the legislature.
As the appellants have relied on certain American decisions where certain taxing laws operating retrospectively were tested on the touchstone of "due process of law" clause it becomes necessary to examine the extent of that doctrine. "The taxing power of Federal Government," says Prof. Willis (Constitutional Law, p. 378), "is limited by the procedural requirements of the due process clause. Notice and hearing, though not a judicial tribunal, are required where the tax is based on the value of the property. Jurisdiction, also, is a requirement for all forms of taxation, though the rules as to jurisdiction vary with the kind of tax levied." According to Willoughby, Constitution of the United States, Vol. III, p. 1875, the due process of law obliges the exercise of the taxing power to conform to the following rules :-
These principles of taxation are not peculiar to America but are accepted in all countries which have parliamentary democracies and govern the Indian taxation system also.
In some American decisions retroactive tax laws were held to be inconsistent with due process : Nichols v. Coolidge(1); Helvering v. Helwholz(2) Blodgett v. Holden (3). But the decision in those cases rested on the ground that the tax could not reasonably be anticipated by the taxpayer at the time of the voluntary act which the statute later made the taxable event e.g., the gift by the descendent of the whole or a part of his interest in property. As was explained in Welch v. Henry(4) at p. 93 :
In that case the retroactive operation of a tax on dividends was upheld and the objection on the ground of inconvenience in being called upon, after the customary time for levy and payment of the tax had passed, to bear a governmental burden of which he had no warning and which he did not anticipate was held to be unsustainable. The contention that the retroactive application of the Revenue Acts is a denial of the due process guaranteed by the Constitution has not been accepted in America as an invariable rule. Welsh v. Henry(1) and the other cases there cited.
The doctrine of due process of law has received various interpretations in America which have not always been consistent. Sometimes it has favoured personal liberty and sometimes social control sometimes personal liberty as a matter of substance. Sometimes it has protected personal liberty by extending due process to matters of substance and sometimes it has protected social control by broadening the scope of police power or the power of taxation or the power of eminent domain. Willis' Constitutional Law, p. 659. Brandeis J., in Untermyer v. Anderson(2) dealing with the presumption of validity of a taxing statute observed :
It was because of the varying meanings and concepts which have from time to time been attached to "due process of law" that the framers of the Indian Constitution did not adopt it in the Constitution; on the other hand they tried to give more defined boundaries to the area of fundamental rights in Arts. 19 and 31 which deal with rights of property and in Arts. 19, 20, 21 and 22 which relate to protection of personal liberty and this Court rejected it in A. K. Gopalan's case (1) and in the State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose (2).
The constitutionality of the duty of excise was challenged in the present case on the ground of violation of Art. 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution. he argument is that a taxing law under Art. 265 is as much a law as any other and therefore falls within the definition of law under Art. 13(3)(a), and if it contravenes any of the fundamental rights under Part III, then to the extent of the contravention it is void. Counsel relied on the second Kochuni case (3).
Article 19 guarantees personal freedoms subject to certain restrictions. Its relevant portion is as follows:
As has already been said the power to tax is the legal capacity of the State to raise from all those subject to its authority a certain amount of revenue essential so the existence and operation of government. A tax is not a penalty but a contribution of monies for governmental purposes by persons who may be residents or non-residents citizens or non citizens, living persons or legal personae who are privileged to enjoy its benefits, but those are not co-relative. It implies an equality of burden and regular distribution of expenses of government among the persons taxed. It is levied by authority of law equitably, uniformly or in echelons on all persons subject to it.
The appellants alleged that they had sold their goods during the period when the Finance Bill was before Parliament. Variations in the rates of duties are not unexpected, it being within the power of Parliament to do so both prospectively and retrospectively. It is not suggested that such variations are unknown in legislative practice or that the legislators were not entitled to amend a money bill as introduced. If the appellants' contention is sustained then it will mean the deprivation of Parliament of its right to choose the objects of taxation and therefore Parliament will only vary the rates of duties proposed by the Executive or the time of their effectiveness at the peril of their being declared invalid although they may be within its legislative competence and may in its opinion be necessary for the carrying out of its policies or subserve the proper governance of the country.
In the Indian Constitution there is an exhaustive enunciation and distribution of legislative powers, including powers as to taxation, between the State Legislatures and Parliament. Subjects of taxation are distributed in the three Legislative Lists and areas of the respective fields of Parliament and State Legislatures as to taxes are defined. In Parts XII and XIII limitations on legislative competence of the various legislatures as to taxation are indicated and emphasis is placed on the preservation of the economic unity of India. Article 265 is in Chapter XII and provides :-
Again at p. 653 he observed :-
A similar decision was given and similar language used by Mahajan, C.J., in Laxmanappa Hanumantappa v. Union of India (1) :-
Ramjilal's case (2) was quoted with approval in Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (3). Thus early after the establishment of this Court opinion was expressed excluding the applicability of fundamental rights in Part III to taxing Statutes. But it is important to notice that the Article which was sought to be applied in those cases was Art. 31 (1) which deals with deprivation of property and not Art. 19 which is regulatory of the rights of a citizen of personal liberty, property and avocation.
It was contended that the impugned tax illegally deprives the appellants of their property and was therefore unconstitutional. In support reference was made to Suraj Mal Mohta & Co. v. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri (1) (under Art.
14); Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Sri A. V. Viswanatha Sastri (2) (under Art. 14); Purshottam Govindji Halai v. Shree B. M. Desai, Additional Collector of Bombay (3) (under Arts. 14 and 21); M. Ct. Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (4) (under Art. 14); A. Thangal Kunju Mudaliar v. M. Venkatchalam Potti (5) (under Art.
14); Bidi Supply Co. v. The Union of India (6) (under Art. 14); Panna Lal Binjraj v. Union of India (7) (under Arts. 14 and 19(1)(g);) and Collector of Malabar v. Erimal Ebrahim Hajee (8). These are the cases in which the validity of taxation laws was attacked under the Articles above mentioned.
In Panna Lal Binjraj v. The Union of India (7), the assault was not against the imposition or the vires of the tax but against the vires of s. 5(7A) of the Indian Income-tax Act which empowers the Commissioner of Income-tax to transfer any case from one Income-tax Officer subordinate to him to another and empowers the Central Board of Revenue to transfer any case from one Income-tax officer to another. This attack was based on the contravention of Arts. 14 and 19(1)(g). It was held that the discretion vested in the authorities empowered to make the transfer is not discriminatory and there was no interference with the right of the citizen to carry on his trade or calling. In collector of Malabar v. Erimal Ebrahim Hajee (8) the attack against the recovery of income-tax under s. 46 (2) of the Income-tax Act was based on Arts. 14, 19 and 22. There again the question for decision was not the imposition of the tax but the mode of recovery and at Page 976 this ground of attack was rejected and reference was there made to the State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh (1); Purshottam Govindji Halai v. Shree B. M. Desai, Additional Collector of Bombay (2). Another case relied upon by the appellant's counsel was Western India Theatres v. The Cantonment Board, Poona, (3) in which the tax was imposed on cinema houses with larger seating capacity and the attack was on the ground of Art. 14 but that was repelled. The appellant's counsel also referred to the Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (4) where the vires of the sales tax imposed on inter- State transactions was attacked. The High Court in the case had held that the petition under Art. 226 was misconceived overlooking the fact that the contention raised was that in so far as the tax purported to act on non-residents in respect of inter-State sales it was ultra vires of the Constitution. At. p. 619, Das, C. J., observed :-
The above opinion is not in accord with the opinion of this court in A. K. Gopalan's case (1); Ram Singh v. State of Delhi (2); State of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji (3); The Daily Express case (4) and The Hamdard Dawakhana case (5).
The question of the applicability of Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution to taxing matters was considered in K. T. Moopil Nair v. The State of Kerala (6). That was a case in which a tax at a flat rate was levied on forest lands in the State of Kerala and this Court by majority held that the tax so imposed was unconstitutional on the ground of infringement of Arts. 14 and 19(1)(f). The reasons given by the learned Chief Justice were:
The provisions of the Act were held in the majority judgment to be confiscatory. It was observed by the learned Chief Justice at p. 559:-
Thus the impugned statute in that case was held to be violative of Art. 19(1)(f) because its procedural part made no provision for giving a hearing to the assessees or for appeal nor was the Assessing Authority required to act judicially and the imposition though called a tax was in effect confiscatory and therefore a colourable piece of legislation. Sarkar, J., in his minority judgment remarked that reasonableness of the rate was not assailed but what was assailed was the imposition of a flat rate per acre without any reference to productivity.
Undoubtedly Moopil Nair's case (1) did hold that a law under Art. 265 was also a law within Art. 13 and if it contravened Art. 14, it was liable to be struck down and that such law must also pass the test of the limitations prescribed in Part III of the Constitution but it did not lay down that all Articles in Part III would be applicable to taxation laws nor did it decide contrary to Ramjilal's case (2) that Art. 31 (1) would apply to taxation law which is otherwise invalid. But it is difficult to hold that a regulatory Article like Art. 19(1) was intended to limit the powers of the Legislature to impose taxes and thus to discharge its duty in regard to country's financial needs and policies.
The contention of infringement of the appellants' right under Art. 19(1) (f) is unsound and must be rejected and the reasons are these:-
That was a case where the Income-tax Officer issued a certificate under s. 46 (2) of the Income-tax Act and the Collector proceeded to recover under s. 48 of Madras Revenue Recovery Act.
Secondly: All taxation, as shown by its very nature and object, is in the interest of the general public because it is a contribution for governmental expenditure from all persons who in some measure are entitled to its benefit.
Thirdly: There is no means or measure for determining the reasonableness of the restrictions which is an objective determination. The needs of the revenue cannot be known to the courts and cannot be determined by them, and the sources of revenue are entirely within the knowledge of the legislature and it is for that department of the State to determine how the burden will be distributed and why, because that department is the policy making body and is familiar with the economics and the resources of the country and its needs. It is for that department in its discretion to select anything for taxation or to exclude it. Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. II, p. 986 (note).
Fourthly: The power to tax is an attribute of sovereignty and it is an accepted principle that the exercise of that power is not subject to judicial control because no Constitutional Government can exist without the power to raise money for its needs and the only security against abuse is in the structure of the Government. That power carries with it the power to determine when and how the tax shall be levied. S. Ananthakrishnan v. The State of Madras (1), M'Culloch v. The State of Maryland (2). There is no indication that the Indian Constitution has rejected or modified the American concept of the sovereignty of the State in regard to the power of taxation.
Fifthly: Article 19 (1) declares the right of a citizen and cl. (5) prescribes its limits. If a taxation statute is within Art. 19(1)(f) it must be capable of being upheld as a reasonable restriction on the holding of property etc. On the submission of the appellants all taxes will be restrictions. If they are restrictions then their reasonableness will be justiciable depending upon the appreciation of established facts. How are the courts to judge ? All the necessary data for determining reasonableness can never be before a court which in the very nature of things is available only to the legislature. Can the court say that a particular tax is excessive or unreasonable or can the court say which particular source should be taxed and which particular income group should bear the burden of taxation or what the policy of the State as to taxation should be. It would seem therefore that the reasonableness of tax laws is not justiciable and therefore they cannot fall within clause (5) of Art. 19. Article 19(1)(f) and cl. 5 are part of one scheme and the former is incapable of operating where the latter is inoperative. If considerations of Art. 19(5) are foreign to taxing laws Art. 19(1)(f) can have no application to them.
Sixthly: Applicability of Art. 19(1)(f) to taxation laws will mean that laws which are otherwise valid will be inapplicable to citizens but will be applicable to non-citizens. At any rate such law will operate differentially between one set of taxpayers and another i.e., between citizens and non-citizens. This will violate the very principles of due process relied upon by the appellants.
Seventhly: In American due process which has a variable concept has not been applied to retrospective operation of tax laws except to tax on voluntary gifts of property and that also was doubted in Welch v. Henry (1).
Eighthly: Retroactive duty of excise will be a valid imposition in the case of persons who have not sold their tobacco between the period of the introduction of the bill and the enactment of the Finance Act but will be invalid in the case of persons placed as the appellants.
Ninthly: The acceptance of the appellants' argument would mean that they can recover any excess duty paid, excess because of subsequent decrease, but would not be liable to pay any similar increase in duty in spite of s. 64-A of the Indian Sale of Goods Act under which variations in the rates of duties become operative on contracts of sale and purchase.
Tenthly: It has been held that Art. 31 is inapplicable to deprivation by taxation. Ramjilal's case (2); Lakshmanppa Hanumantappa v. The Union of India (3); and taxation laws are expressly excluded from the operation of Art. 31(2) by cl. 5(b)(i) of that Article. If the appellants' contention is correct then deprivation although not protected under Art. 31 will be subject to regulatory control under Art. 19(1)(f).
Eleventhly: To put it in the words of the American Supreme Court in Odgen v. Saunders(1) "It is but a decent respect due to the wisdom the integrity and the patriotism of the legislative body, by which law is passed to presume in favour of its validity, until its violation of the Constitution is proved beyond all reasonable doubt".
Twelfthly: The challenge to the legality of the tax in dispute is not based and is unsustainable on the ground of specific limitation or prohibition on Parliamentary power but has been raised on the ground of the infringement of an article containing the principles of the State's power of control. The cases dealing with legislative incapacity are inapplicable to the latter ground of assault. Cases such as Mohammad Yasin v. The Town Area Committee, Jalalabad(2) (a case of a licence fee which is not a tax), The State of Bombay v. United Motors India Ltd.(3)(a case of inter-State trade) and Bengal Immunity Co. case (4) (which was also a case of inter-State trade and some of the provision of the impugned Act there were held to be unreasonable restriction on the right to carry on trade) and Ch. Tika Ramji's case (5) (a case dealing with the imposition of the restriction on the right to purchase except through a particular society) were not cases in which the imposition of a tax was challenged on the ground of infringement of Art. 19(1)(f).
I, therefore, agree that appeals be dismissed with costs. One hearing fee.
Appeal dismissed.	Total Judgement
