P. Krishna Menon vs The Commissioner Of Income-Tax, ... on 7 October, 1958	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 401 of 1956. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 8, 1956, of the Travancore-Cochin High Court at Ernakulam in I.T.R. No. 24 of 1954.	Issue
1958. October 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SARKAR J.-The appellant who was a Superintendent of Police in the service of the former Travancore State, retired sometime in 1940. After retirement he was spending his time in studying Vedanta philosophy and expounding the same to such persons as were keen on understanding it. He soon gathered about him a number of disciples, one of whom was J. H. Levy of London, U.K. Levy along with others used to receive instructions in Vedanta from the appellant. He used to come to Travancore from England at regular intervals and stay there for a few months at a time and attend the discourses given by the appellant and so had the benefit of his teachings on Vedanta.
This appeal arises out of orders for assessment to income- tax passed against the appellant for the assessment years 1122, 1123 and 1124, all according to the Malayalam era. The respective accounting periods according to the Gregorian calendar were from August 17, 1945, to August 16, 1946, August 17, 1946, to August 16, 1947, and August 17, 1947, to August 16, 1948. It appears that during these periods Levy bad deposited in the appellant's account at Lloyd's Bank in Bombay the following respective sums: Rs. 13,304/-, Rs. 29,948/- and Rs. 19,983/-. During the same periods the appellant had obtained transfers of the following respective sums from his Bombay account to his Trivandrum account: Rs. 81,200/-, Rs. 47,000/- and Rs. 37,251/-. The Income-tax Officer, Trivandrum, assessed the appellant to tax on the latter amounts as foreign income, i.e., income arising in India, and brought into Travancore State in the relevant periods. We are not concerned in this case with the assessment made on other income of the appellant. Tile appellant appealed from these assessment orders to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who consolidated them into one appeal. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner dismissed the appeal and confirmed the orders of the Income-tax Officer. The appellant then went up in appeal to the Appellate Tribunal but that appeal also failed. The appellant thereafter obtained an order from the Tribunal referring the following Questions to the High Court of Travancore-Cochin for decision:	Facts
A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, S. R. Ganapathy Iyer, J. B. Dadachanji and G. Gopalakrishna, for the appellant. K. N. Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.	PetArg
Levy had an account in Lloyd's Bank at Bombay. On December 13, 1941, Levy transferred the entire balance standing to his credit in this account amounting to Rs. 2,41,103-11-3, to the credit of an account which he got the appellant to open in his name in the same bank. Thereafter, from time to time Levy put in further sums into the appellant's aforesaid account in Lloyds Bank, Bombay. It appears that the payments so made up to August 19, 1951, amounted to about Rs. 4,50,000/-. From time to time the appellant got moneys transferred from his account at the Lloyd's Bank, Bombay, to his account in a bank at Trivandrum in Travancore.
It is well established that in cases of this kind the real question is, as Rowlatt J. put it in Reed v. Seymour (1), "
In the view that we take, namely, that the payments with which we are concerned, were income, arising from the vocation of the appellants a teacher of Vedanta, no question of exemption under s. 4(3)(vii) of the Act arises. In order that a payment may be, exempted under that section, it has to be shown that it did not arise from the exercise of a vocation.	Precedent
In the result, we have come to the conclusion that this appeal fails and it is dismissed with costs in this Court.
Appeal dismissed.	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 401 of 1956. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 8, 1956, of the Travancore-Cochin High Court at Ernakulam in I.T.R. No. 24 of 1954.
A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, S. R. Ganapathy Iyer, J. B. Dadachanji and G. Gopalakrishna, for the appellant. K. N. Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.
1958. October 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SARKAR J.-The appellant who was a Superintendent of Police in the service of the former Travancore State, retired sometime in 1940. After retirement he was spending his time in studying Vedanta philosophy and expounding the same to such persons as were keen on understanding it. He soon gathered about him a number of disciples, one of whom was J. H. Levy of London, U.K. Levy along with others used to receive instructions in Vedanta from the appellant. He used to come to Travancore from England at regular intervals and stay there for a few months at a time and attend the discourses given by the appellant and so had the benefit of his teachings on Vedanta.
Levy had an account in Lloyd's Bank at Bombay. On December 13, 1941, Levy transferred the entire balance standing to his credit in this account amounting to Rs. 2,41,103-11-3, to the credit of an account which he got the appellant to open in his name in the same bank. Thereafter, from time to time Levy put in further sums into the appellant's aforesaid account in Lloyds Bank, Bombay. It appears that the payments so made up to August 19, 1951, amounted to about Rs. 4,50,000/-. From time to time the appellant got moneys transferred from his account at the Lloyd's Bank, Bombay, to his account in a bank at Trivandrum in Travancore.
This appeal arises out of orders for assessment to income- tax passed against the appellant for the assessment years 1122, 1123 and 1124, all according to the Malayalam era. The respective accounting periods according to the Gregorian calendar were from August 17, 1945, to August 16, 1946, August 17, 1946, to August 16, 1947, and August 17, 1947, to August 16, 1948. It appears that during these periods Levy bad deposited in the appellant's account at Lloyd's Bank in Bombay the following respective sums: Rs. 13,304/-, Rs. 29,948/- and Rs. 19,983/-. During the same periods the appellant had obtained transfers of the following respective sums from his Bombay account to his Trivandrum account: Rs. 81,200/-, Rs. 47,000/- and Rs. 37,251/-. The Income-tax Officer, Trivandrum, assessed the appellant to tax on the latter amounts as foreign income, i.e., income arising in India, and brought into Travancore State in the relevant periods. We are not concerned in this case with the assessment made on other income of the appellant. Tile appellant appealed from these assessment orders to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who consolidated them into one appeal. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner dismissed the appeal and confirmed the orders of the Income-tax Officer. The appellant then went up in appeal to the Appellate Tribunal but that appeal also failed. The appellant thereafter obtained an order from the Tribunal referring the following Questions to the High Court of Travancore-Cochin for decision:
headmaster as "there is no background of business in it ", was clearly not intended to lay down that without a profit motive there could be no business, profession or vocation. The pension could be taxed only if it had arisen out of the office and the only point decided was that it had not so arisen as the headmaster held no office, having retired earlier, at the date the pension had been granted: see the same case in the House of Lords(1). We think therefore that the teaching of Vedanta by the appellant in this case can properly be called the carrying on of a vocation by him. Then the other point to be decided is, whether the payments made by Levy were income received by the appellant from his vocation of teaching Vedanta. A very large number of authorities, both Indian and English, have been pressed upon us in tile course of the argument. These cases illustrate the application of the well-settled principle that in the case of a voluntary payment, no tax can be levied on it if it bad been made for reasons purely personal to the donee and unconnected with his office or vocation while it will be taxable if it was made because of the office or vocation of the donee. We do not consider it profitable to discuss them in this case. Also it seems to us that the present case is too plain to require any authority. The only point is, whether the moneys were received by the appellant by virtue of his vocation. Mr. Sastri contended that the facts showed that the payments were purely personal gifts. He drew our attention to the affidavit of Levy where it is stated " all sums of money paid into his account by me have been gifts to mark my esteem and affection for him and for no other reason". But Levy also there said, " I have had the benefit of his teachings on Vedanta ". It is important to remember however that the point is not what the donor thought he was doing but why the donee received it. So Collins M. R. in Herbert v. McQuade referring to Inland Revenue v. Strong said at p. 649:
particular facts justified it, is certainly an affirmation of a principle of law that a payment may be liable to income-tax although it is voluntary on the part of the persons who made it, and that the test is whether, from the standpoint of the person who receives it, it accrues to him in virtue of his office ; if it does, it does not matter whether it was voluntary or whether it was compulsory on the part of the persons who paid it. That seems to me to be the test; and if we once get to this-that the money has come to or accrued to, a person by virtue of his office-it seems to me that the liability to income tax is not negatived merely by reason of the fact that there was no legal obligation on the part of the persons who contributed the money to pay it."
It is well established that in cases of this kind the real question is, as Rowlatt J. put it in Reed v. Seymour (1), "
respect. Such reasons no doubt played their part in obtaining and increasing the amount of the offerings, but I cannot doubt that they were given to the vicar as vicar. and that they formed part of the profits accruing by reason of his office." We have no doubt in this case that the imparting of the teaching was the causa causans of the making of the gift; it was not merely a causa sine qua non. The payments were repeated and came with the same regularity as Levy's visits to the appellant for receiving instructions in Vedanta. We do not feel impressed by Mr. Sastri's contention that the first payment of Rs. 2,41,103-11-3 was too large a sum to be paid as consideration. In any case we are not concerned in this case with that payment. We are concerned with payments which are of much smaller amounts and as to which it has not been -said that they were too large to be a consideration for the teaching. And one must not forget, that these are cases of voluntary payments and the question of the appraisement of the value of the teaching received in terms of money is not very material. If the first payment was too big to have been paid for the teaching received, it was too big to; have been given purely by way of gift.
In the view that we take, namely, that the payments with which we are concerned, were income, arising from the vocation of the appellants a teacher of Vedanta, no question of exemption under s. 4(3)(vii) of the Act arises. In order that a payment may be, exempted under that section, it has to be shown that it did not arise from the exercise of a vocation.
In the result, we have come to the conclusion that this appeal fails and it is dismissed with costs in this Court.
Appeal dismissed.	Total Judgement
