Madhya Pradesh Mineral ... vs The Regional Labour ... on 7 April, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 389 of 1959. Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 25, 1957, of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur in Misc. Petition No. 476 of 1956.	Issue
1960. April 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal arises -from a writ petition filed by the appellant, Madhya Pradesh Mineral Industry Association, in which the appellant challenged the validity of the notification issued by the Madhya Pradesh State Government on March 30, 1952, under S. 5(2) of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) (hereinafter called the Act). The High Court of Bombay at Nagpur dismissed the appellant's petition but has granted the appellant a certificate of fitness under Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution. It is with the said certificate that the present appeal has been brought to this Court. The appellant is a non-profit making company limited by guarantee and registered under s. 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913. It has been formed with the object of protecting and promoting the interest of its members-shareholders who are engaged in the mining industry by all legitimate and constitutional means. It appears that under Art. 258 of the Constitution the President of India by Notification No. S.R.O. 2052 published on December 11, 1951, entrusted Governments of . certain States including Madhya Pradesh with their consent the functions of the Central Government under the Act in so far as such functions relate to the fixation of minimum rates of wages in respect of employees employed in stone-breaking or in stone-crushing operations carried on in mines situated within their respective States. Pursuant to the said delegation the Madhya Pradesh Government issued the impugned notification purporting to act under s. 5(2) of the Act. This notification has prescribed the minimum rates of wages for employment in stone-breaking or in stone-crushing operations carried on in mines. The rates thus prescribed were inclusive of dearness allowance or compensatory cost of living allowance. The Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Nagpur, Respondent 1, wrote to the appellant for the first time on June 20, 1956, stating that the State of Madhya Pradesh, Respondent 2, had considered the question whether the Act was applicable to the manganese mining industry and had come to the conclusion that it was so applicable; that is why the appellant's members were asked by respondent 1 to implement the Act within a fortnight from the receipt of his letter. The appellant made several representations to respondent 1 urging that the Act was inapplicable to the manganese mining industry; nevertheless respondent 1 threatened large-scale prosecution of the appellant's members on the basis that the Act applied to them, and its provisions bad been contravened by them. The appellant was thus driven to file the present petition because it alleged that it had no alter- native remedy, at any rate equally speedy and efficacious, and so it was urged on its behalf that the High Court should issue a writ quashing the impugned notification as ultra vires. In its petition the appellant had also alleged that the notification issued by the President of India under Art. 258 cannot fasten upon the manganese mining industry the character of employment in stone-breaking or stone-crushing and if that was the object of the said notification it was invalid.	Facts
A. S. Bobde and Ganpat Rai, for the appellant. H. J. Umrigar K. L. Hathi and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 2.	PetArg
The respondents disputed the correctness of the appellant's contention that the impugned notification is invalid. It was urged on their behalf that any industry wherein the workers are employed in operations involving stone-breaking or stone-crushing is governed by the Act. In their written statement they described the details about the mining operations and contended that the mining of manganese ore mainly consists of development work or the removal of over- burden, breaking of big mineral stones like boulder ore or bed ore to manageable sizes, dressing of ores to remove impurities, etc. According to the respondents, having regard to the nature of the manganese mining industry the Act applied to the stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations connected with it.	RespArg
used in item 8 should receive their widest denotation, and that, according to him, would include stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations carried on in mines. It is conceded that stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations have to be carried on in regard to the work in manganese mines. Stones are beaten to small pieces by means of a hammer and they are washed and passed through sieves of different meshes before manganese is obtained. When the Schedule refers to the employment of stone-breaking or stone-crushing does it refer to the incidental stone-breaking or stone-crushing in connection with manganese mine operations ? In a chemical or a geological sense stones may include manganese and that is one of the meanings given to the word in the Shorter Oxford Dictionary. On the other hand, the word " stone " as popularly understood in ordinary parlance particularly when it is coupled with the word " breaking " or " crushing "
employment" had been used in their wide denotation. We are not satisfied that this conclusion is right,. In fact it appears to us that if the word " any" had been used in item 8 it might have helped to make its scope wider; that is to say, if item 8 bad read as " employment in any ,stone- breaking or any stone-crushing operations " it might have tended to make its scope wider. As it stands the entry is, in our opinion, confined to Stone-breaking and stone- crushing employment in quarries and not in mines. As we have already pointed out a notification under s. 5(2) can be issued only in respect of employments which fall under the Schedule. We would, however, like to add that this conclusion merely helps to emphasise the fact that the appropriate government may, and can, act under s. 27 of the Act if it is desired that the employment in mines or in connection with any operations incidental to mining should be governed by the provisions of the Act. Section 27 empowers the appropriate government to add items to the Schedule and it would be open to the appropriate government to adopt such a course if it is intended to achieve the object with which the impugned notification has been issued. One more point still remains to be considered. Mr. Umrigar attempted to argue that the appellant cannot challenge the vires of the impugned notification without challenging the vires of the delegation of authority effected by the notification issued by the President of India under Art. 258 of the Constitution. The argument is that if the notification of the President is valid then the State Government has merely exercised its authority as a delegate and its validity cannot be challenged in isolation from the principal or parent notification which conferred the authority on the State Government. This contention has obviously not been raised before the High Court. Besides, if the State Government purports to take action on the strength of the impugned notification which is invalid it would be open to the appellant to resist the threatened action on the ground that the notification is invalid and no action can be validly taken against the appellant for the contravention of the provisions of the Act. As this Court has observed in A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar v. M. Venkitachalam Potti (1), "	Section
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 389 of 1959. Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 25, 1957, of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur in Misc. Petition No. 476 of 1956.
A. S. Bobde and Ganpat Rai, for the appellant. H. J. Umrigar K. L. Hathi and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 2.
1960. April 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal arises -from a writ petition filed by the appellant, Madhya Pradesh Mineral Industry Association, in which the appellant challenged the validity of the notification issued by the Madhya Pradesh State Government on March 30, 1952, under S. 5(2) of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) (hereinafter called the Act). The High Court of Bombay at Nagpur dismissed the appellant's petition but has granted the appellant a certificate of fitness under Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution. It is with the said certificate that the present appeal has been brought to this Court. The appellant is a non-profit making company limited by guarantee and registered under s. 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913. It has been formed with the object of protecting and promoting the interest of its members-shareholders who are engaged in the mining industry by all legitimate and constitutional means. It appears that under Art. 258 of the Constitution the President of India by Notification No. S.R.O. 2052 published on December 11, 1951, entrusted Governments of . certain States including Madhya Pradesh with their consent the functions of the Central Government under the Act in so far as such functions relate to the fixation of minimum rates of wages in respect of employees employed in stone-breaking or in stone-crushing operations carried on in mines situated within their respective States. Pursuant to the said delegation the Madhya Pradesh Government issued the impugned notification purporting to act under s. 5(2) of the Act. This notification has prescribed the minimum rates of wages for employment in stone-breaking or in stone-crushing operations carried on in mines. The rates thus prescribed were inclusive of dearness allowance or compensatory cost of living allowance. The Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Nagpur, Respondent 1, wrote to the appellant for the first time on June 20, 1956, stating that the State of Madhya Pradesh, Respondent 2, had considered the question whether the Act was applicable to the manganese mining industry and had come to the conclusion that it was so applicable; that is why the appellant's members were asked by respondent 1 to implement the Act within a fortnight from the receipt of his letter. The appellant made several representations to respondent 1 urging that the Act was inapplicable to the manganese mining industry; nevertheless respondent 1 threatened large-scale prosecution of the appellant's members on the basis that the Act applied to them, and its provisions bad been contravened by them. The appellant was thus driven to file the present petition because it alleged that it had no alter- native remedy, at any rate equally speedy and efficacious, and so it was urged on its behalf that the High Court should issue a writ quashing the impugned notification as ultra vires. In its petition the appellant had also alleged that the notification issued by the President of India under Art. 258 cannot fasten upon the manganese mining industry the character of employment in stone-breaking or stone-crushing and if that was the object of the said notification it was invalid.
The respondents disputed the correctness of the appellant's contention that the impugned notification is invalid. It was urged on their behalf that any industry wherein the workers are employed in operations involving stone-breaking or stone-crushing is governed by the Act. In their written statement they described the details about the mining operations and contended that the mining of manganese ore mainly consists of development work or the removal of over- burden, breaking of big mineral stones like boulder ore or bed ore to manageable sizes, dressing of ores to remove impurities, etc. According to the respondents, having regard to the nature of the manganese mining industry the Act applied to the stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations connected with it.
The High Court has accepted the respondent's plea and has rejected the appellant's prayer that a writ should be issued in its favour prohibiting the respondents from enforcing the provisions of the Act against its members. Unfortunately, on two important points the High Court has misdirected itself. It appears to have assumed that the impugned notification has added an entry in the Schedule to the Act, and has observed that as a result of the said addition the provisions of the Act came to be applied to the employment in stone-breaking or in stone-crushing operations carried on in the mines. The High Court has made this observation in setting out the appellant's case and it is on the basis of this observation that the High Court has proceeded to examine the validity of the appellant's contention. It is, however, clear that the impugned notification does not purport to add any item in Schedule I and that was also not the case of the appellant. Thus the assumption made by the High Court on, both the points is, with respect, erroneous. In its judgment the High Court has also observed that the vires of the impugned notification, though challenged in the petition, was not challenged before -the High Court and so the only question that remained for its decision was one of interpretation of the relevant provisions of the entry introduced by the notification. This statement again does not appear to be entirely correct. The principal, if not the sole, ground on which the appellant sought for a writ from the High Court was that the impugned notification was ultra vires s. 5(2) of the Act. If the validity of the said notification had been conceded by the appellant its writ petition would have immediately become ineffective because if the notification is valid then the question of construction of the material entry can present no difficulty whatever. In terms the stonebreaking and stone-crushing operations carried on in mines are specified and the appellant could not possibly urge that the relevant activities carried on by its members did not attract the said description. In view of the fact that the High Court has made a clear statement to the effect that the vires of the impugned notification had not been challenged before it we were at first not inclined to allow Mr. Bobde, for the appellant, to argue that point before us; however, after hearing him and after considering the rest of the record we are satisfied that the statement made in the judgment is not accurate. In the petition filed by the appellant the validity of two notifications was challenged; the first was the notification issued by the President of India under Art. 258 of the Constitution, and the second is the impugned notification under which proceedings are threatened against the appellant's members. It is clear from the record that the appellant did not and could not have pressed its case against the validity of the first notification, but it did press its objection against the validity of the second notification ; and that would be clear from the certificate of fitness granted by the High Court itself. The certificate says that the questions raised by the appellant relate to the applicability of the provisions of the Act to persons employed in stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations carried on at various manganese mines. Now it is clear that this question can arise only if the appellant seeks to challenge the validity of the notification, not otherwise. It is because the employees in question are, according to the appellant, not employed under any of the items prescribed in the Schedule to the Act that the impugned notification is invalid; in that context the questions posed in the certificate would arise. If the notification itself is valid then the solution to the question posed can hardly be regarded as fit for a certificate under Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution. Besides, the appellant's contention against the validity of the impugned notification has been set out in its application for certificate before the High Court and the same has been expressly repeated in the statement of case filed by the appellant before us. We must, therefore, hold that the High Court was in error in assuming that the vires of the impugned notification had been conceded by the appellant before it. This is another serious infirmity in the judgment of the High Court.
As a consequence of the two infirmities in the judgment the approach which the High Court adopted in dealing with the matter has been considerably influenced. It has no doubt considered the meaning of the word " employment and " stone " in connection with the expression stone-breaking " and "
used in item 8 should receive their widest denotation, and that, according to him, would include stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations carried on in mines. It is conceded that stone-breaking or stone-crushing operations have to be carried on in regard to the work in manganese mines. Stones are beaten to small pieces by means of a hammer and they are washed and passed through sieves of different meshes before manganese is obtained. When the Schedule refers to the employment of stone-breaking or stone-crushing does it refer to the incidental stone-breaking or stone-crushing in connection with manganese mine operations ? In a chemical or a geological sense stones may include manganese and that is one of the meanings given to the word in the Shorter Oxford Dictionary. On the other hand, the word " stone " as popularly understood in ordinary parlance particularly when it is coupled with the word " breaking " or " crushing "
employment" had been used in their wide denotation. We are not satisfied that this conclusion is right,. In fact it appears to us that if the word " any" had been used in item 8 it might have helped to make its scope wider; that is to say, if item 8 bad read as " employment in any ,stone- breaking or any stone-crushing operations " it might have tended to make its scope wider. As it stands the entry is, in our opinion, confined to Stone-breaking and stone- crushing employment in quarries and not in mines. As we have already pointed out a notification under s. 5(2) can be issued only in respect of employments which fall under the Schedule. We would, however, like to add that this conclusion merely helps to emphasise the fact that the appropriate government may, and can, act under s. 27 of the Act if it is desired that the employment in mines or in connection with any operations incidental to mining should be governed by the provisions of the Act. Section 27 empowers the appropriate government to add items to the Schedule and it would be open to the appropriate government to adopt such a course if it is intended to achieve the object with which the impugned notification has been issued. One more point still remains to be considered. Mr. Umrigar attempted to argue that the appellant cannot challenge the vires of the impugned notification without challenging the vires of the delegation of authority effected by the notification issued by the President of India under Art. 258 of the Constitution. The argument is that if the notification of the President is valid then the State Government has merely exercised its authority as a delegate and its validity cannot be challenged in isolation from the principal or parent notification which conferred the authority on the State Government. This contention has obviously not been raised before the High Court. Besides, if the State Government purports to take action on the strength of the impugned notification which is invalid it would be open to the appellant to resist the threatened action on the ground that the notification is invalid and no action can be validly taken against the appellant for the contravention of the provisions of the Act. As this Court has observed in A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar v. M. Venkitachalam Potti (1), "	Total Judgement
