Workmen Of Assam Co vs Assam Co. Ltd on 28 March, 1958	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 34 of 1957. Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 31, 1955, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Calcutta in Appeal Nos. Cal-187 & Cal-188 of 1954, arising out of the Award dated May 15, 1954, of the Industrial Tribunal, Assam in Reference No. 20 of 1953 published in the Assam Gazette dated June 16, 1954. C.B. Aggarwala and K. P. Gupta for the appelants. P.K. Goswami, S. N. Mukherjee and B. N. Ghosh, for the respondent.	Issue
1958. March 31. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.-In this appeal brought by special leave against the order of the labour Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta dated August 31, 1955, the controversy between the parties is confined to the question of bonus. The appellants are the workmen including members of the Indian staff and artisans employed by the respondent, the Assam Co. Ltd., a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and engaged in tea, industry in the State of Assam. The appellants claimed bonus for the years 1950, 1951 and 1952 at the rate of 6 months' wages per year. The respondent offered to the Indian staff excluding the artisans Rs. 51,061 as bonus for 1950, Rs. 48,140 for 1951 and Rs. 15,493 for 1952 which works out at 2.3% of the net profit for the year 1950, 3.1 % for the year 1951 and 3.9 % for the year 1952. This dispute was referred to the Industrial Tribunal by a notification of the Assam Government dated August 27, 1953. The Industrial Tribunal allowed depreciation as given in the company's balance sheets for the three years and allowed as return on the paid up capital and on the reserve 7% and 5% respectively and held the artisans also to be entitled to bonus. For the purpose of mode of payment the Industrial Tribunal accepted the " unit scheme" under which the company had been paying bonus since the year 1926. It was of the opinion that the scheme was fair and rational and gave incentive to industrial efficiency and to production. Both the appellants and the respondent appealed against this order, the former as to the correctness of the accounts, the amount of the return on capital and reserves and the " unit scheme " and again claimed six months' wages per year as bonus. The latter appealed against the percentages allowed on the capital and the reserves and claimed 10% and 8% respectively as a fair return. It objected to the inclusion of the artisans amongst the workmen eligible for bonus and also to the application of what is known as the Bombay formula to Tea industry.
The Labour Appellate Tribunal varied the Tribunal's award and allowed depreciation at the rate allowable under the Indian Income Tax Act, confirmed 7% on the paid up capital but raised the return on the reserves from 5% to 6% in order to meet the claim of the company for rehabilitation which though not claimed before the Industrial Tribunal, was put forward before it as a basis for increase in return on reserves. In this Court the appellants again repeated their objection to the amount of depreciation, the return on capital and on reserves and to the " unit scheme " but were prepared to confine their claim to two months' was as bonus. Counsel for the respondent objected to the applicability of the formula to an industry like the 'tea industry, his contention being that circumstances and considerations applicable to the textile industry cannot apply to Tea industry which, being connected with agriculture, is affected by various factors which must be taken into consideration in the matter of depreciation, return oil capital and return on reserves.	Facts
The principles on which the ascertainment of the surplus on the basis of which bonus becomes determinable and distributable have been laid down by this Court in Sree Meenakshi Mills v. Their Workmen The formula there laid down is:
(1) [1958] S.C.R. 878.	Precedent
The Industrial Tribunal allowed 7% return on capital as against 6% held allowable under the formula. Its reasons for this increase were :	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 34 of 1957. Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 31, 1955, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Calcutta in Appeal Nos. Cal-187 & Cal-188 of 1954, arising out of the Award dated May 15, 1954, of the Industrial Tribunal, Assam in Reference No. 20 of 1953 published in the Assam Gazette dated June 16, 1954. C.B. Aggarwala and K. P. Gupta for the appelants. P.K. Goswami, S. N. Mukherjee and B. N. Ghosh, for the respondent.
1958. March 31. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.-In this appeal brought by special leave against the order of the labour Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta dated August 31, 1955, the controversy between the parties is confined to the question of bonus. The appellants are the workmen including members of the Indian staff and artisans employed by the respondent, the Assam Co. Ltd., a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and engaged in tea, industry in the State of Assam. The appellants claimed bonus for the years 1950, 1951 and 1952 at the rate of 6 months' wages per year. The respondent offered to the Indian staff excluding the artisans Rs. 51,061 as bonus for 1950, Rs. 48,140 for 1951 and Rs. 15,493 for 1952 which works out at 2.3% of the net profit for the year 1950, 3.1 % for the year 1951 and 3.9 % for the year 1952. This dispute was referred to the Industrial Tribunal by a notification of the Assam Government dated August 27, 1953. The Industrial Tribunal allowed depreciation as given in the company's balance sheets for the three years and allowed as return on the paid up capital and on the reserve 7% and 5% respectively and held the artisans also to be entitled to bonus. For the purpose of mode of payment the Industrial Tribunal accepted the " unit scheme" under which the company had been paying bonus since the year 1926. It was of the opinion that the scheme was fair and rational and gave incentive to industrial efficiency and to production. Both the appellants and the respondent appealed against this order, the former as to the correctness of the accounts, the amount of the return on capital and reserves and the " unit scheme " and again claimed six months' wages per year as bonus. The latter appealed against the percentages allowed on the capital and the reserves and claimed 10% and 8% respectively as a fair return. It objected to the inclusion of the artisans amongst the workmen eligible for bonus and also to the application of what is known as the Bombay formula to Tea industry.
The Labour Appellate Tribunal varied the Tribunal's award and allowed depreciation at the rate allowable under the Indian Income Tax Act, confirmed 7% on the paid up capital but raised the return on the reserves from 5% to 6% in order to meet the claim of the company for rehabilitation which though not claimed before the Industrial Tribunal, was put forward before it as a basis for increase in return on reserves. In this Court the appellants again repeated their objection to the amount of depreciation, the return on capital and on reserves and to the " unit scheme " but were prepared to confine their claim to two months' was as bonus. Counsel for the respondent objected to the applicability of the formula to an industry like the 'tea industry, his contention being that circumstances and considerations applicable to the textile industry cannot apply to Tea industry which, being connected with agriculture, is affected by various factors which must be taken into consideration in the matter of depreciation, return oil capital and return on reserves.
The principles on which the ascertainment of the surplus on the basis of which bonus becomes determinable and distributable have been laid down by this Court in Sree Meenakshi Mills v. Their Workmen The formula there laid down is:
(1) [1958] S.C.R. 878.
Under this formula the depreciation allowable in cases arising under the Industrial Disputes Act is the normal depreciation including shift depreciation. We did not understand counsel for the respondent to contend that there was anything in the formula which was wrong in principle but that it had to be adjusted to suit the circumstances of the Tea industry. No circumstances, were however, given by him which would make it unfair to apply the formula nor were any figures or particulars furnished for varying it in regard to depreciation.
The Industrial Tribunal allowed 7% return on capital as against 6% held allowable under the formula. Its reasons for this increase were :	Total Judgement
