R. G. S. Naidu And Co vs Commissioner Of Income-Tax Andexcess ... on 14 December, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 181 to 184 of 1960.
Hardayal Hardy and D. Gupta, for the respondent. 1960, December 14. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHAH, J.-These appeals relate to Excess Profits Tax liability of the appellants in respect of two chargeable accounting periods April 1. 1944, to March 31., 1945, and April 1, 1945, to March 31, 1946.	Issue
The appellants were under an agreement dated July 11, 1945, appointed managing agents for 20 years of the Coimbatore Spinning and Weaving Co, Ltd.-hereinafter referred to as the company. Prior to October 1, 1944, the appellants were the Managing Agents of the Coimbatore Mills Agency Ltd--hereinafter referred to as the Agency Company who were the Managing Agents of the company. The year of account of the appellants ended on March 31, of the company on June 30, and of the Agency Company on September 30. Under the agreement by which the appellants were appointed 'managing agents, the following remuneration was provided:
For the assessment year 1945-46, the appellants submitted a return of their income inclusive of the following items:
This return was accepted by the Additional Income-tax Officer, Coimbatore I & II Circles, and the appellants were assessed to income-tax. Excess Profits Tax was also worked out on the same basis for the chargeable accounting period ending March 31, 1945. For the assessment year 1946-47, the appellants submitted a return of their income which included the following items:	PetArg
2,299 were rightly assessed for the assessment year 1946-47 ?	RespArg
Two questions were canvassed in these appeals:	Precedent
The High Court answered all the questions against the appellants and in favour of the Department. Against the order passed by the High Court, these appeals have been preferred with certificate granted under s. 66A(2) of the Income-Tax Act read with s. 21 of the Excess Profits Tax Act.
Determination of the second question depends upon r. 9, Sob. 1, of the Excess Profits Tax Act. By s. 2(19) of the Excess Profits Tax Act, the expression " profits " means profits as determined in accordance with Sch. 1. That schedule sets out rules for computation of profits for the purpose of the Excess Profits Tax Act; and by r. 9, it is provided in so far as it is material that:	Section
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs. One hearing fee.
Appeals dismissed.
__________________	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 181 to 184 of 1960.
Appeals. from the judgment and order dated March 16, 1955, of the Madras High Court in Case Referred No. 43 of 1950. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, R. Ganapathy Iyer and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the appellants.
Hardayal Hardy and D. Gupta, for the respondent. 1960, December 14. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHAH, J.-These appeals relate to Excess Profits Tax liability of the appellants in respect of two chargeable accounting periods April 1. 1944, to March 31., 1945, and April 1, 1945, to March 31, 1946.
The appellants were under an agreement dated July 11, 1945, appointed managing agents for 20 years of the Coimbatore Spinning and Weaving Co, Ltd.-hereinafter referred to as the company. Prior to October 1, 1944, the appellants were the Managing Agents of the Coimbatore Mills Agency Ltd--hereinafter referred to as the Agency Company who were the Managing Agents of the company. The year of account of the appellants ended on March 31, of the company on June 30, and of the Agency Company on September 30. Under the agreement by which the appellants were appointed 'managing agents, the following remuneration was provided:
For the assessment year 1945-46, the appellants submitted a return of their income inclusive of the following items:
This return was accepted by the Additional Income-tax Officer, Coimbatore I & II Circles, and the appellants were assessed to income-tax. Excess Profits Tax was also worked out on the same basis for the chargeable accounting period ending March 31, 1945. For the assessment year 1946-47, the appellants submitted a return of their income which included the following items:
The Tax Officer in charge of the assessment directed that the commission on purchases and capital expenditure be taken into account for the year April 1, 1945, to March 31, 1946, and that the receipts-be computed accordingly. The amount of Rs. 1,127 attributable out of item 4 was accordingly taken into the account of the previous year after reopening the assessment under s. 34 of the Income-tax Act, and the commission on the profits of the company was apportioned between the period October 1, 1944, to March 31, 1945, and April 1, 1945, to June 30, 1945, by the application of r. 9 of Sch. 1 of the Excess Profits Tax Act. The Tax Officer also determined the proportionate commission payable under items 3 and 4, for the period ending March 31, 1946, and as a result of the apportionment, the liability of the appel- lants, original and revised, for income tax and Excess Profits Tax for the assessment year 1945-46 and chargeable accounting period April 1, 1944, to March 31, 1945, stood as follows:
2,299 were rightly assessed for the assessment year 1946-47 ?
The High Court answered all the questions against the appellants and in favour of the Department. Against the order passed by the High Court, these appeals have been preferred with certificate granted under s. 66A(2) of the Income-Tax Act read with s. 21 of the Excess Profits Tax Act.
Two questions were canvassed in these appeals:
The appellants maintained their books of account on cash basis and commission received from the company was credited after the accounts of the company were closed. The amounts received by the appellants from the company were included in their return and assessment for the year 1945-46 was completed for the purposes of the Excess Profits Tax by the Tax Officer without apportionment appropriate to the chargeable accounting periods. In so doing, the Tax Officer committed an error. He overlooked the fact that the chargeable accounting period for the as assessment of Excess Profits Tax and the year of account of the company did not tally. Under s. 15 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, if the Tax Officer discovers, in consequence of definite information which has come into his possession that profits of any chargeable accounting period chargeable to excess profits tax have escaped assessment, or have been under assessed, he may serve on the person liable to pay such tax a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under s. 13 and may proceed to assess or reassess the profits. The provision is substantially similar to s. 34(1) of the Income-tax Act before it was amended in the year 1948. It is manifest that by the assessment of income made on the assumption that the chargeable accounting period and the accounting period of the company tallied, there resulted under assessment in the computation of tax liability for Excess Profits Tax, and it was open to the Tax Officer to take action under s. 15 of the Excess Profits Tax Act.
Determination of the second question depends upon r. 9, Sob. 1, of the Excess Profits Tax Act. By s. 2(19) of the Excess Profits Tax Act, the expression " profits " means profits as determined in accordance with Sch. 1. That schedule sets out rules for computation of profits for the purpose of the Excess Profits Tax Act; and by r. 9, it is provided in so far as it is material that:
The performance of the contract of managing agency extended beyond the period of account of the company which was July 1, 1945, to June 30, 1946: it covered parts of two accounting periods. The Tax Officer was therefore obliged to apportion to the, chargeable accounting periods the entire profits resulting from the complete performance of the contract in proportions properly attributable to the accounting periods and this, he proceeded to do. Counsel for the appellants contends that the contracts contemplated by r. 9 are those of the nature of engineering or works contracts and the like where execution of the contract involves a profit making operation de die in diem and not contracts where remuneration is payable at a certain time for services performed throughout the stipulated period. It is true that remuneration was paid to the appellants after the expiry of the year of account of the company ; but the contract was one the performance of which extended throughout the year of account of the company. The appellants were the managing agents of the company and they had to perform their duties as managing agents for the whole year. It is not disputed that the contract of agency for 20 years is to be regarded for assessment of excess profits tax as an annual contract. The performance of the contract unmistakably cut across the accounting period is also manifest. The remuneration for performance of the contract is not computed at a daily rate, but is computed on a percentage of the commission on the profits of the company for the whole year, but on that account, the contract is not one in which performance does not extend throughout the year of account. Normally in a managing agency contract, the managing agent may not suffer loss, but that does not rule out the application of r. 9 to managing agency contracts. The terms in which r. 9 is enacted are general:
income tax on the amounts of remuneration paid to their transferees. The court was not called upon to apply to income received by the assessee the principle of apportionment under r. 9 of Sch. 1 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, or any provision similar thereto. It is r. 9 of Sch. I which attracts the principle of apportionment. The rule enunciated in M/s, E. D. Sassoon & Co.'s case (1) has therefore no application to this case, and the High Court was right in holding that the assessment made by the Excess Profits Tax Officer by apportionment of the commission income between the chargeable accounting periods was correct.
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs. One hearing fee.
Appeals dismissed.
__________________	Total Judgement
