Leo Roy Frey vs The Superintendent, District ... on 31 October, 1957	Case Title
1957. October 31. The following Order of the Court was delivered by DAS C.J.--In their respective separate petitions, the petitioners pray (1) for an order, direction or writ in the nature of certiorari and/or prohibition calling for the records in the case of the Assistant Collector of Land Customs & Central Excise, Amritsar, against the two petitioners and one Moshe Baruk, on the file of the Additional District Magistrate of Amritsar and for quashing the proceedings therein, and (2) for an order, direction or writ in the nature of habeas corpus for the production before this Court of the persons of the petitioners to be dealt with according to law.	Issue
The facts appearing from the records are shortly as follows:	Facts
N. C. Chatterjee and Nanak Chand, for the petitioners. M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.	PetArg
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 126 and 127 of 1957. (Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights).
pronounced on May 16, 1957, in F. N. Roy v. Collector of Customs (1). No question has been raised as to the maximum amount of penalty that can be imposed under s. 167(8) and we are not called upon to express any opinion on that point. But the fact that the Collector of Customs acted judicially is not decisive and does not necessarily attract the protection guaranteed by Art. 20(2) and the question still remains whether the petitioners' case comes within the provisions of Art. 20(2). That article protects a person from being ,prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once". The question has to be answered as to whether the petitioners had previously been prosecuted and punished for the same offence for which they are now being prosecuted before the Additional District Magistrate. The proceedings before the Customs authorities were under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act. Under s. 186 of that Act, the award of any confiscation, penalty or increased rate of duty under that Act by an officer of Customs does not prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under any other law. The offences with which the petitioners are now charged include an offence under s. 120B, Indian Penal Code. Criminal conspiracy is an offence created and made punishable by the Indian Penal Code. It is not an offence under the Sea Customs Act. The offence of a conspiracy to commit a crime is a different offence from the crime that is the object of the conspiracy because the conspiracy precedes the commission of the crime and is complete before the crime is attempted or completed, equally the crime attempted or completed does not require the element of conspiracy as one of its ingredients. They are, therefore, quite separate offences. This is also the view expressed by the United States Supreme Court in United States v. Rabinowich (2). The offence of criminal conspiracy was not the subject matter of the proceedings before the Collector of Customs and therefore it cannot be said that the petitioners have already been prosecuted and punished for the "same offence".
It is true that the Collector of Customs has used the words " punishment " and " conspiracy ", but those words were used in order to bring out that each of the two petitioners was guilty of the offence under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act. The petitioners were not and could never be charged with criminal conspiracy before the Collector of Customs and therefore Art. 20(2) cannot be invoked. In this view of the matter it is not necessary for us, on the present occasion, to refer to the case of Maqbool Hussain v. The State of Bombay (1) and to discuss whether the words used in Art. 20 do or do not contemplate only proceedings of the nature of criminal proceedings before a court of law or a judicial tribunal as ordinarily understood. In our opinion, Art. 20 has no application to the facts of the present case. No other points having been urged before us, these applications must be dismissed.	Section
(2) (1915) 238 U.S. 78.
Applications dismissed.	Conclusion
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 126 and 127 of 1957. (Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights).
N. C. Chatterjee and Nanak Chand, for the petitioners. M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.
1957. October 31. The following Order of the Court was delivered by DAS C.J.--In their respective separate petitions, the petitioners pray (1) for an order, direction or writ in the nature of certiorari and/or prohibition calling for the records in the case of the Assistant Collector of Land Customs & Central Excise, Amritsar, against the two petitioners and one Moshe Baruk, on the file of the Additional District Magistrate of Amritsar and for quashing the proceedings therein, and (2) for an order, direction or writ in the nature of habeas corpus for the production before this Court of the persons of the petitioners to be dealt with according to law.
The facts appearing from the records are shortly as follows:
pronounced on May 16, 1957, in F. N. Roy v. Collector of Customs (1). No question has been raised as to the maximum amount of penalty that can be imposed under s. 167(8) and we are not called upon to express any opinion on that point. But the fact that the Collector of Customs acted judicially is not decisive and does not necessarily attract the protection guaranteed by Art. 20(2) and the question still remains whether the petitioners' case comes within the provisions of Art. 20(2). That article protects a person from being ,prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once". The question has to be answered as to whether the petitioners had previously been prosecuted and punished for the same offence for which they are now being prosecuted before the Additional District Magistrate. The proceedings before the Customs authorities were under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act. Under s. 186 of that Act, the award of any confiscation, penalty or increased rate of duty under that Act by an officer of Customs does not prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under any other law. The offences with which the petitioners are now charged include an offence under s. 120B, Indian Penal Code. Criminal conspiracy is an offence created and made punishable by the Indian Penal Code. It is not an offence under the Sea Customs Act. The offence of a conspiracy to commit a crime is a different offence from the crime that is the object of the conspiracy because the conspiracy precedes the commission of the crime and is complete before the crime is attempted or completed, equally the crime attempted or completed does not require the element of conspiracy as one of its ingredients. They are, therefore, quite separate offences. This is also the view expressed by the United States Supreme Court in United States v. Rabinowich (2). The offence of criminal conspiracy was not the subject matter of the proceedings before the Collector of Customs and therefore it cannot be said that the petitioners have already been prosecuted and punished for the "same offence".
(2) (1915) 238 U.S. 78.
It is true that the Collector of Customs has used the words " punishment " and " conspiracy ", but those words were used in order to bring out that each of the two petitioners was guilty of the offence under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act. The petitioners were not and could never be charged with criminal conspiracy before the Collector of Customs and therefore Art. 20(2) cannot be invoked. In this view of the matter it is not necessary for us, on the present occasion, to refer to the case of Maqbool Hussain v. The State of Bombay (1) and to discuss whether the words used in Art. 20 do or do not contemplate only proceedings of the nature of criminal proceedings before a court of law or a judicial tribunal as ordinarily understood. In our opinion, Art. 20 has no application to the facts of the present case. No other points having been urged before us, these applications must be dismissed.
Applications dismissed.	Total Judgement
