M/S. U. P. Electric Supply Co., Ltd vs The Workmen Of M/S. S. N. ... on 8 March, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 481 of 1958. Appeal by special leave from the Award dated June 29, 1957, of the State Industrial, Tribunal U.P. Allahabad, in Ref. No. 98 of 1956.
M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshuar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the, appellants.
A. D. Mathur, for respondent No. 1.
G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lat, for respondent No. 2. G. N. Dikshit and C. P. Lal, for the intervener. 1960. March, 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO, J.-This is an appeal by special leave against the order of the Industrial Tribunal, Allahabad. The appellant is the U. P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd., Lucknow, (hereinafter called the company). It appears that the company used to employ Messrs. s M. Choudhary (hereinafter referred to as the contractors) as its contractors for doing certain work for it. The contractors in their turn used to employ a number of persons to carry out the work which they had taken on contract. A dispute arose between the contractors and their workmen in 1956 and an application was made on June 6, 1956, by the workmen before the conciliation board. To this application both the company as well as the contractors were parties and four matters were referred by the workmen to the conciliation board, namely, (i) non-grant of bonus for the years 1953-54 and 1954-55; (ii) nongrant of festival holidays; (iii) non-fixation of minimum wages of these workmen at par with the workmen employed by the company; and (iv) nonabolition of the contract system. Efforts at conciliation failed and thereupon the Government of Uttar Pradesh made a reference to the Industrial Tribunal under the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, No. XXVIII of 1947, (hereinafter called the Act). In this reference only three points were referred out of the four which were before the conciliation board, namely, those relating to bonus, festival holidays and payment of wages to these workmen at par with the workmen of the company. The fourth point which was raised before the conciliation board (namely, non-abolition of the contract system) was not referred. The parties to this reference were two, namely-(i) the contractors and (ii) their workmen. The appellant was not a party to this reference. On August 13, 1956, another notification was issued by the U. P. Government under ss. 3, 5 and 8 of the Act by which the company was impleaded as a party to the dispute referred by the notification of July 31, 1956. It is remarkable, however, that the matters of dispute which were specified in the reference dated July 31, 1956, were not amended as they could have been under the proviso to s. 4 of the Act, by adding the fourth point 'of dispute before the conciliation board, namely, the non-abolition of the contract system. When the matter came up before the industrial court it framed a number of issues; and the first and most important issue ran thus: "Are the workmen concerned employees of the U. P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd., Lucknow or of Messrs. S. M. Chaudhary, contractors ? "	Total Judgement
