Kalindi & Others vs Tata Locomotive & Engineering Co., Ltd on 25 March, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 101 of 1960. Appeal by special leave from the Award dated 2nd March, 1959, of the Labour Court, Chotanagpur Division, Ranchi, in Misc. Cases Nos. 73,76, 77, 79-82, 84-90 of 1958. N. C. Chatterjee, A . K. Dutt and B. P. Maheshwari for the appellants.	Issue
On behalf of the appellants, Charan Singh, Parmanand and K. Ganguli, it was urged that the orders of dismissal were bad inasmuch as they were based on a finding of guilt of misconduct not mentioned in the charge-sheet. Each of these appellants it appears, was accused in the charge-sheet of four different acts of misconducts:-
The formal dismissal order that was drawn up on the basis of this finding and served on him after stating that he was found guilty of the first three charges stated that he was found guilty of threatening and intimidating Mr. Chakravarty, chargeman, who was compelled to stop work on 21-5-58. On his behalf it has been urged that though the enquiry officer's report says that he was guilty of "	PetArg
Sohrab D. Vimadalal, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondents. 1960. March 25. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA, J.-When the management of an industry holds an enquiry into the charges against a workman for the purpose of deciding what action if any, should be taken against him, has the workman a right to be represented by a representative of his Union at the enquiry ? That is the principal question raised in this appeal. The 14 appellants, all workmen in M/s. Tata Locomotive & Engineering Co., Ltd., Jamshedpur, were dismissed under the orders of the company's management on the result of an enquiry held against them. As industrial disputes between these workmen and the company were at that time pending before the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, the company filed applications purporting to be under s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act praying for approval of the action taken by it against the workmen. Workmen also filed applications under s. 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act complaining of the action taken against them by the company. The applications of the com- pany under s. 33 were however ultimately held to have become infructuous and the applications under s. 33A were only considered and disposed of by the Labour Court. The applications of these 14 appellants were however dismissed. Against that order the appellants have preferred this appeal after having obtained special leave for the purpose. The common contention urged on behalf of the appellants was that the enquiry on the results of which the orders of dismissal were based was not a proper and valid enquiry inasmuch as the workmen were not allowed to be represented at the enquiry by a representative of the Jamshedpur Union to which these workmen belonged. It has been urged that fair play demands that at such an enquiry the workman concerned should have reasonable assistance for examination and cross-examination of the witnesses and for seeing that proper records are made of the proceeding& It has been argued that a representative of the workmen's Union is best suited to give such assistance and in the absence of such assistance the workman does not get a fair chance of making his case before the Enquiry Officer. It appears that when on June 5, 1953, requests were made on behalf of the several workmen that they should be allowed to be represented by a representative of the Jamshedpur Mazdoor Union at the enquiry to conduct the same on workmen's behalf, the management rejected this request but informed the workmen that they could, if they so desired, be represented by a co- worker from the workmen's own department at the enquiry., The question which arises therefore is whether this refusal of the workmen's request to be represented at the enquiry by a representative of their Union vitiated the enquiry.	RespArg
It is helpful to consider in this connection the fact that ordinarily in enquiries before domestic tribunals the person accused of any misconduct conducts his own case. Rules have been framed by Government as regards the procedure to be followed in enquiries against their own employees. No provision is made in these rules that the person against whom an enquiry is held may be represented by anybody else. When the general practice adopted by domestic tribunals is that the person accused conducts his own case, we are unable to accept an argument that natural justice demands that in the case of enquiries into a chargesheet of misconduct against a workman he should be represented by a member of his Union. Besides it is necessary to remember that if any enquiry is not other. wise fair, the workman concerned can challenge its validity in an industrial dispute. Our conclusion therefore is that a workman against whom an enquiry is being held by the management has no right to be represented at such enquiry by a representative of his Union; though of course an employer in his discretion can and may allow his employee to avail himself of such assistance.
The argument is that the charge as set out in the charge- sheet does not mention this act of " deliberately preventing the man in charge of the Compressor in the Repair Shop from carrying out his duty." This is obviously erroneous. The charge-sheet after alleging the four acts of misconduct went on to give particulars of these charges. As regards the fourth charge, viz., " threatening and intimidating the other workers in the Repair Shop " the particulars were in- thesewords: "By threatening and intimidating others in the repair shop you stopped them from working and also you took the Compressor man by his hand and got the Compressor stopped." The statement in the dismissal order as regards his being quilty of deliberately preventing the man in charge of the Compressor in the Repair Shop from carrying out his duty " has in fact been mentioned in the charge- sheet, though in slightly different words. There is no substance therefore, in the contention that the acts of misconduct on which the dismissal order was based included one not mentioned in the chargesheet. The four acts of misconduct alleged in the chargesheet against Gurbux Singh were:-
The Enquiry Officer's report found him guilty of the following acts:-
The Enquiry Officer's report states the conclusions reached by him thus:-	Precedent
The relevant portion of the order of dismissal is in these words:-
The manager's order on these is in these words:-	Section
He is therefore dismissed from the service of the Company......... ".	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 101 of 1960. Appeal by special leave from the Award dated 2nd March, 1959, of the Labour Court, Chotanagpur Division, Ranchi, in Misc. Cases Nos. 73,76, 77, 79-82, 84-90 of 1958. N. C. Chatterjee, A . K. Dutt and B. P. Maheshwari for the appellants.
Sohrab D. Vimadalal, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondents. 1960. March 25. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA, J.-When the management of an industry holds an enquiry into the charges against a workman for the purpose of deciding what action if any, should be taken against him, has the workman a right to be represented by a representative of his Union at the enquiry ? That is the principal question raised in this appeal. The 14 appellants, all workmen in M/s. Tata Locomotive & Engineering Co., Ltd., Jamshedpur, were dismissed under the orders of the company's management on the result of an enquiry held against them. As industrial disputes between these workmen and the company were at that time pending before the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, the company filed applications purporting to be under s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act praying for approval of the action taken by it against the workmen. Workmen also filed applications under s. 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act complaining of the action taken against them by the company. The applications of the com- pany under s. 33 were however ultimately held to have become infructuous and the applications under s. 33A were only considered and disposed of by the Labour Court. The applications of these 14 appellants were however dismissed. Against that order the appellants have preferred this appeal after having obtained special leave for the purpose. The common contention urged on behalf of the appellants was that the enquiry on the results of which the orders of dismissal were based was not a proper and valid enquiry inasmuch as the workmen were not allowed to be represented at the enquiry by a representative of the Jamshedpur Union to which these workmen belonged. It has been urged that fair play demands that at such an enquiry the workman concerned should have reasonable assistance for examination and cross-examination of the witnesses and for seeing that proper records are made of the proceeding& It has been argued that a representative of the workmen's Union is best suited to give such assistance and in the absence of such assistance the workman does not get a fair chance of making his case before the Enquiry Officer. It appears that when on June 5, 1953, requests were made on behalf of the several workmen that they should be allowed to be represented by a representative of the Jamshedpur Mazdoor Union at the enquiry to conduct the same on workmen's behalf, the management rejected this request but informed the workmen that they could, if they so desired, be represented by a co- worker from the workmen's own department at the enquiry., The question which arises therefore is whether this refusal of the workmen's request to be represented at the enquiry by a representative of their Union vitiated the enquiry.
Accustomed as we are to the practice in the courts of law to skilful handling of witnesses by lawyers specially trained in the art of examination and cross examination of witnesses, our first inclination is to think that a fair enquiry demands that the person accused of an act should have the assistance of some person, who even if not a lawyer may be expected to examine and cross-examine witnesses with a fair amount of skill. We have to remember however in the first place that these are not enquiries in a court of law. It is necessary to remember also that in these enquiries, fairly simple questions of fact as to whether certain acts of misconduct were committed by a workman or not only fall to be considered, and straightforward questioning which a person of fair intelligence and knowledge of conditions prevailing in the industry will be able to do will ordinarily help to elicit the truth. It may often happen that the accused workman will be best suited, and fully able to cross-examine the witnesses who have spoken against him and to examine witnesses in his favour.
It is helpful to consider in this connection the fact that ordinarily in enquiries before domestic tribunals the person accused of any misconduct conducts his own case. Rules have been framed by Government as regards the procedure to be followed in enquiries against their own employees. No provision is made in these rules that the person against whom an enquiry is held may be represented by anybody else. When the general practice adopted by domestic tribunals is that the person accused conducts his own case, we are unable to accept an argument that natural justice demands that in the case of enquiries into a chargesheet of misconduct against a workman he should be represented by a member of his Union. Besides it is necessary to remember that if any enquiry is not other. wise fair, the workman concerned can challenge its validity in an industrial dispute. Our conclusion therefore is that a workman against whom an enquiry is being held by the management has no right to be represented at such enquiry by a representative of his Union; though of course an employer in his discretion can and may allow his employee to avail himself of such assistance.
On behalf of the appellants, Charan Singh, Parmanand and K. Ganguli, it was urged that the orders of dismissal were bad inasmuch as they were based on a finding of guilt of misconduct not mentioned in the charge-sheet. Each of these appellants it appears, was accused in the charge-sheet of four different acts of misconducts:-
The Enquiry Officer found each of them guilty of the first three charges. He, however, recorded no findings as regards the fourth charge but instead found these workmen guilty of a misconduct not mentioned in the charge-sheet, viz., "
The relevant portion of the order of dismissal is in these words:-
The dismissal order after mentioning that he was found guilty of the first three charges further states that he was found guilty of the following acts of misconduct:
The argument is that the charge as set out in the charge- sheet does not mention this act of " deliberately preventing the man in charge of the Compressor in the Repair Shop from carrying out his duty." This is obviously erroneous. The charge-sheet after alleging the four acts of misconduct went on to give particulars of these charges. As regards the fourth charge, viz., " threatening and intimidating the other workers in the Repair Shop " the particulars were in- thesewords: "By threatening and intimidating others in the repair shop you stopped them from working and also you took the Compressor man by his hand and got the Compressor stopped." The statement in the dismissal order as regards his being quilty of deliberately preventing the man in charge of the Compressor in the Repair Shop from carrying out his duty " has in fact been mentioned in the charge- sheet, though in slightly different words. There is no substance therefore, in the contention that the acts of misconduct on which the dismissal order was based included one not mentioned in the chargesheet. The four acts of misconduct alleged in the chargesheet against Gurbux Singh were:-
The Enquiry Officer's report found him guilty of the following acts:-
The manager's order on these is in these words:-
The formal dismissal order that was drawn up on the basis of this finding and served on him after stating that he was found guilty of the first three charges stated that he was found guilty of threatening and intimidating Mr. Chakravarty, chargeman, who was compelled to stop work on 21-5-58. On his behalf it has been urged that though the enquiry officer's report says that he was guilty of "
The formal order of dismissal that was drawn up stated that he had been found guilty of the following acts of misconduct:-
He is therefore dismissed from the service of the Company......... ".
The Enquiry Officer's report states the conclusions reached by him thus:-
It can be said that the charge of threatening and intimidating has not been proved beyond doubt." If one looks at the formal order of dismissal only it seems that though the charge of threatening and intimidating other employees was not proved against him the order of dismissal was partially based on it. If there was nothing else this might be a serious infirmity in the order. We find however that the General Manager recorded his order on the formal Report itself in these words:-	Total Judgement
