Ramaswamy Nadar vs The State Of Madras on 11 October, 1957	Case Title
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 153 of 1957.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 3rd April, 1957, of the Madras High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 393 of 1956 arising out of the judgment and order dated the 10th February, 1956, of the Court of the Fourth Presidency Magistrate, G. T. Madras in C. C. No. 10027 of 1955.	Issue
H. J. Umrigar, R. Ganapathy lyer, and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the appellant.	PetArg
But we do not see any sufficient ground for so restricting the powers of the High Court hearing an appeal under s. 423(1)(a). No rulings have been placed before us in support of the contention that s. 423(1)(a) does not authorize a High Court to find the accused person guilty of any offence other than that with which he has been charged. On the other hand, there is a ruling of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Emperor v. Ismail Khadirsab (1). In that case, the accused person had been acquitted of the charge of murder and on appeal against the acquittal, the Bombay High Court maintained the acquittal in respect of the charge of murder, but held the accused guilty of the offence of fabricating false evidence. We are not concerned with the correctness of the actual decision of the High Court, but only with the fact that the High Court recognized and acted upon the principle that it is open to the High Court, while deciding an appeal from an order of acquittal, to convict the accused person of an offence other than that with which he had been charged. It was sought to be argued on behalf of the appellant that the High Court purported to follow the decision of their Lordships of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Begu v. Emperor (2) but it is contended that this was a case of an appeal from a conviction and not an appeal from an order of acquittal. But it would appear that the (1) (1928) I.L. R. 52 Bom. 385.
decision of their Lordships of the Judicial Committee, was not based on a consideration of the language of s. 423, but of the provisions of ss. 236 and 237 of the Code. In our opinion, there is no warrant either in principle or on authority, for the first contention raised on behalf of the appellant. This contention is, therefore, overruled. It remains to consider the merits of the decision of the High Court. The conclusions of the High Court may be stated in its own words in the last paragraph of its judgment:	Precedent
(2) (1923) L.R. I. A. 191.	Conclusion
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 153 of 1957.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 3rd April, 1957, of the Madras High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 393 of 1956 arising out of the judgment and order dated the 10th February, 1956, of the Court of the Fourth Presidency Magistrate, G. T. Madras in C. C. No. 10027 of 1955.
H. J. Umrigar, R. Ganapathy lyer, and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the appellant.
P. Rama Reddy and T. M.. Sen, for the respondent. 1957. October 11/21. The following Judgment of the Court was delivered by SINHA J.-This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and order of a Single Judge of the Madras High Court, dated April 3, 1957, setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the fourth Presidency Magistrate at Madras, dated February 10, 1956, on a charge under s. 420, Indian Penal Code. The Government of Madras appealed against the order of acquittal and the appeal was heard by a Single Judge of that Court. The learned Judge allowed the appeal, but did not convict the appellant under s. 420, Indian Penal Code, which was the original charge against him in the trial court, but under s. 403, Indian Penal Code, for misappropriation, and sentenced him to the maximum period of two years' rigorous imprisonment. Hence, this appeal. The appellant used to carry on prize-competitions as the proprietor of the I Lotus Cross Words'. Certain persons who had paid moneys in connection with the prize-competition No. 92, complained that they had not received their prize money though it had been announced that they had competed for the prizes' offered. The police, after investigation, submitted a charge-sheet against the accused to the effect that he had, between May 20, 1955, and June 10, 1955, in his capacity as the proprietor of the 'Lotus Cross Words', dishonestly induced P.Ws. 1 to 3 to compete in his " bumper competition " No. 92, by paying entry fees to the tune of Rs. 2,640 on the representation that the prize winners will get a sum of Rs. 3,10,000, and that on that representation, he had collected one lac and fifteen thousand odd rupees from the public, out of which he had spent about nineteen thousand rupees towards expenses of advertising and holding the competition. Though P.Ws. 1 to 3 and others had been declared as the first prize winners, the accused had not distributed even the amount actually collected minus the expenses aforesaid, that is to say Rs. 96,000 odd, the amount of the net collections. Tile prosecution examined a number of witnesses to prove that the' appellant had been holding crossword competitions and a large number of persons had paid moneys by way of entry fees; that the competition in question, namely, competition No. 92, had been advertized with a guaranteed sum of Rs. 3,10,000 by way of prizes; that as a matter of fact a much smaller sum had been collected by way of entry fees; that the three prosecution witnesses aforesaid and others had been, in due course, declared to be the first prize winners, but that none of them had been paid any money. It is also in evidence that a large number of other bumper competitions', namely, Nos. 80, 84 and 88, had similarly been held, and large sums were advertised to have been guaranteed as prize moneys. None of those 'bumper competitions' yielded the sums so guaranteed. The gravamen of the charge against the accused was that in spite of his recent experience that none of those 'bumper competitions' attracted a sufficiently large number of competitors to yield the guaranteed prize money, the accused had advertised the competition No. 92 with a guaranteed prize money of Rs. 3,10,000 and that in spite of his having collected about one lac and fifteen thousand odd rupees by way of entry fees, none of the prizes declared to have been won by prosecution witnesses 1 to 3 and others, had actually been paid. It was, therefore, suggested by the prosecution that the recent history of the prize competitions conducted by the appellant, would show that he was actuated by a dishonest intention when he collected one lac and fifteen thousand odd rupees by way of entry fees, and did not utilize any part of the collected amount towards payment of the prizes offered. A large volume of documentary evidence furnished by the appellant's registers and account books, was adduced in support of the prosecution case. In his defence, the appellant stated in his written Statement that he started the 'Lotus Cross Words' in August, 1953, with a capital of twenty thousand rupees, and conducted 93 competitions, but due to insufficient Collections in the recent competitions, he was not able to respect all his obligations, so much so that he was forced to close down the business owing to loss, on June 22, 1955. And to show his bona fides, he had disbursed over a lac of rupees even after the closure of the business and had settled the claims of six thousand out of seven thousand prize winners. He, thus, claimed that less than one thousand persons' claims had remained unsatisfied in spite of his borrowing money lo carry out his obligations. The learned magistrate, on an elaborate examination of the evidence led before him by the parties, observed in his judgment that the accused had not denied the truth of the allegations of fact made by the prosecution, but had only challenged the insinuations against him that he was actuated by a dishonest intention in carrying on the competitions, particularly, No. 92. He found that none of the statements made in the advertisements had been shown to be untrue; that it was a fact that it the time, the competition No. 92 had been announced in the papers, the accused owed a total debt of prize moneys amounting to about four lacs of rupees in respect of the previous competitions; that the accused had other debts to the tune of a lac and fifty seven thousand odd rupees and that recent competitions had not even yielded sufficient amounts, collected by way of entry fees, to cover the guaranteed prize moneys. But he also found that the accused had applied his own funds amounting to about a lac and a half rupees to the payment of prize moneys. He found that the prosecution had failed to substantiate its allegations that ninety six thousand odd rupees, out of the entry fees collected for the competition No. 92, had been utilized by him for his own purposes and not for carrying on the competitions. He observed that there was no evidence that the accused had used any part of the entry fees collected in any of the competitions, for his own use, or that he took any financial benefit out of the moneys collected in the recent competitions including No.
92. In other words, the court found that in order to meet the heavy demands of the prize winners in respect of the previous competitions, the accused had spent not only the amounts collected by him but also about one and t half lacs of rupees of his own capital. Thus, instead of making any gain for himself, the accused had incurred a total loss of about a lac and a half of rupees, and still he had to meet other prize winners' demands, including those of the three prosecution witnesses aforesaid. On those considerations, his finding was that the accused may have been absolutely foolish and reckless and far too optimistic in expecting large sums of money by way of collections of entry fees, but that he had not been guilty of any fraudulent or dishonest conduct. Ultimately, he came to the following conclusion:
But we do not see any sufficient ground for so restricting the powers of the High Court hearing an appeal under s. 423(1)(a). No rulings have been placed before us in support of the contention that s. 423(1)(a) does not authorize a High Court to find the accused person guilty of any offence other than that with which he has been charged. On the other hand, there is a ruling of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Emperor v. Ismail Khadirsab (1). In that case, the accused person had been acquitted of the charge of murder and on appeal against the acquittal, the Bombay High Court maintained the acquittal in respect of the charge of murder, but held the accused guilty of the offence of fabricating false evidence. We are not concerned with the correctness of the actual decision of the High Court, but only with the fact that the High Court recognized and acted upon the principle that it is open to the High Court, while deciding an appeal from an order of acquittal, to convict the accused person of an offence other than that with which he had been charged. It was sought to be argued on behalf of the appellant that the High Court purported to follow the decision of their Lordships of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Begu v. Emperor (2) but it is contended that this was a case of an appeal from a conviction and not an appeal from an order of acquittal. But it would appear that the (1) (1928) I.L. R. 52 Bom. 385.
(2) (1923) L.R. I. A. 191.
decision of their Lordships of the Judicial Committee, was not based on a consideration of the language of s. 423, but of the provisions of ss. 236 and 237 of the Code. In our opinion, there is no warrant either in principle or on authority, for the first contention raised on behalf of the appellant. This contention is, therefore, overruled. It remains to consider the merits of the decision of the High Court. The conclusions of the High Court may be stated in its own words in the last paragraph of its judgment:
In our opinion, these observations are very much wide of the mark. The High Court has not reversed any of the findings of fact recorded by the learned magistrate. It has differed only on the inference to be derived from those findings. The learned trial magistrate refused to draw an inference of dishonesty from those facts. The High Court has come to the contrary conclusion. The question is: was the High Court justified in coming to the conclusion that "	Total Judgement
