D. R. Madhavakrishnaiah vs The Income-Tax Officer, Bangalore on 16 December, 1953	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 209 and 210 of 1953.	Issue
1953 . December 16. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by PATANJALI SASTRI C. J.-These two connected appeals arise out of applications made to the High Court of Judicature at Bangalore under article 226 of the Constitution challenging the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle, Bangalore, to assess the appellant to income-tax and super-tax on his income accruing prior to April 1, 1950, in the State of Mysore and praying for the issue of appropriate writs in that behalf. The applications were dismissed by the court and leave to appeal having been refused, the appellant has brought these appeals by special leave of this court.	Facts
M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, (Porus A. Mehta, with him) for the respondent.	RespArg
Appeals by special leave against the Judgment and Orders dated 4th April, 1953, of the High Court of Judicature of Mysore at Bangalore (Medapa C. J. and Vasudevamurthy J.) in Civil Petitions Nos, 20 and 21 of 1953, M.Ramaswamy, Senior Advorate, (B. Neelakanta, with him) for the appellant.	Precedent
It -is a matter of admission that the officer making the assessments was an officer Appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act,, 1922, and that in making such assessments he was applying the income-tax law in force in the State of Mysore down to the end of the year of account 1948-49. The officer was exercising jurisdiction in the State by virtue of -the proviso to section 13 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950, which reads as follows:-
It was urged that, inasmuch as the article authorises, among others, the income-tax and super-tax, which was being lawfully levied by the Government of Mysore prior to the commencement of the Constitution to be levied and to be applied to the same purposes even after the commencement of the Constitution until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament by law, and no such law was made by Parliament till April 1, 1950, when the Indian Finance Act, 1950, was enacted, it followed by necessary implication, the Mysore law of income-tax must be applied for the levy, assessment and collection of such taxes and, as the legislative power conferred on Parliament by article 245 is subject to the provisions of the Constitution including article 277, Parliament had no power to legislate, grafting officers and authorities. appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act, on the Mysore State, for the levy, assessment and collection of the tax under the State law. We see no force in this argu- ment. While article 277 undoubtedly authorises the continued levy of taxes lawfully levied by the Government of the State before the commencement of the Constitution and their application to the same purposes as before, even after the Constitution came into force, there is nothing in the article to warrant any implication that such taxes should continue to be levied, assessed and collected by the same State authorities as before the Constitution. As the High Court rightly pointed out, it would obviously have been inconvenient and unnecessary to have officers appointed under the Mysore Income-tax Act continuing to function only in respect of the earlier assessment years side by side with officers appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act also functioning in the State for assessments subsequent to April 1, 1950. Both as a measure. of economy and with a view to smooth and efficient management, it was obviously necessary and desirable that the changeover from the Mysore income-tax law to the Indian Income-tax Act should be in the way provided by section 13 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950. We find nothing in article 277 of the Constitution to preclude Parliament making a law providing for the levy and collection of income-tax and super-tax under the Mysore Act through authorities appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act. Accordingly, we hold that the Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle, Bangalore, had jurisdiction to assess the appellant to income tax and super-tax in respect of the income of the period prior to the commencement of the Constitution.	Section
those taxes, duties, cesses, or fees are mentioned in the Union List, continue to be levied and to be applied to the same purposes until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament by law."
The appeals fail and are dismissed with costs. Appeals dismissed.
Agent for the appellant: M. S. K. Sastri.
Agent for the respondent: G. H. Rajadhyaksha.	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 209 and 210 of 1953.
Appeals by special leave against the Judgment and Orders dated 4th April, 1953, of the High Court of Judicature of Mysore at Bangalore (Medapa C. J. and Vasudevamurthy J.) in Civil Petitions Nos, 20 and 21 of 1953, M.Ramaswamy, Senior Advorate, (B. Neelakanta, with him) for the appellant.
M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, (Porus A. Mehta, with him) for the respondent.
1953 . December 16. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by PATANJALI SASTRI C. J.-These two connected appeals arise out of applications made to the High Court of Judicature at Bangalore under article 226 of the Constitution challenging the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle, Bangalore, to assess the appellant to income-tax and super-tax on his income accruing prior to April 1, 1950, in the State of Mysore and praying for the issue of appropriate writs in that behalf. The applications were dismissed by the court and leave to appeal having been refused, the appellant has brought these appeals by special leave of this court.
It -is a matter of admission that the officer making the assessments was an officer Appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act,, 1922, and that in making such assessments he was applying the income-tax law in force in the State of Mysore down to the end of the year of account 1948-49. The officer was exercising jurisdiction in the State by virtue of -the proviso to section 13 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950, which reads as follows:-
those taxes, duties, cesses, or fees are mentioned in the Union List, continue to be levied and to be applied to the same purposes until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament by law."
It was urged that, inasmuch as the article authorises, among others, the income-tax and super-tax, which was being lawfully levied by the Government of Mysore prior to the commencement of the Constitution to be levied and to be applied to the same purposes even after the commencement of the Constitution until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament by law, and no such law was made by Parliament till April 1, 1950, when the Indian Finance Act, 1950, was enacted, it followed by necessary implication, the Mysore law of income-tax must be applied for the levy, assessment and collection of such taxes and, as the legislative power conferred on Parliament by article 245 is subject to the provisions of the Constitution including article 277, Parliament had no power to legislate, grafting officers and authorities. appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act, on the Mysore State, for the levy, assessment and collection of the tax under the State law. We see no force in this argu- ment. While article 277 undoubtedly authorises the continued levy of taxes lawfully levied by the Government of the State before the commencement of the Constitution and their application to the same purposes as before, even after the Constitution came into force, there is nothing in the article to warrant any implication that such taxes should continue to be levied, assessed and collected by the same State authorities as before the Constitution. As the High Court rightly pointed out, it would obviously have been inconvenient and unnecessary to have officers appointed under the Mysore Income-tax Act continuing to function only in respect of the earlier assessment years side by side with officers appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act also functioning in the State for assessments subsequent to April 1, 1950. Both as a measure. of economy and with a view to smooth and efficient management, it was obviously necessary and desirable that the changeover from the Mysore income-tax law to the Indian Income-tax Act should be in the way provided by section 13 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950. We find nothing in article 277 of the Constitution to preclude Parliament making a law providing for the levy and collection of income-tax and super-tax under the Mysore Act through authorities appointed under the Indian Income-tax Act. Accordingly, we hold that the Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle, Bangalore, had jurisdiction to assess the appellant to income tax and super-tax in respect of the income of the period prior to the commencement of the Constitution.
The appeals fail and are dismissed with costs. Appeals dismissed.
Agent for the appellant: M. S. K. Sastri.
Agent for the respondent: G. H. Rajadhyaksha.	Total Judgement
