Buckingham And Carnatic Co. Ltd vs Workers Of The Buckingham Andcarnatic ... on 2 December, 1952	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil - Appeal No. 89 of 1952. Appeal by 'special leave from the Judgment dated June 27, 1951, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India at Calcutta in Appeals Nos. 94 and 142 of 1950 arising out of the Award of the Second Industrial Tribunal, Madras (published in the Fort St. George Gazette, Madras, dated October 3, (1950).
N. C. Chatterjee (S. N. Mukherjee, with him) for the appellant.
MAHAJAN J.-This is an appeal by special leave from a decision dated 27th June, 1951, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India at Calcutta in appeals Nos. 94 and 142 of 1950, arising out of the award of the Second Industrial Tribunal, Madras.	Issue
The relevant facts and circumstances giving rise to the appeal are as follows: On 1st November, 1948, 859 night shift operatives of the carding and spinning department of the Carnatic Mills stopped work, some at 4 p.m., some at 4- 30 p.m. and some at 5 p.m. The stoppage ended at 8 p.m. in both the departments. By 10 p.m, the strike ended completely. The apparent cause for the strike was that the management of the Mills had expressed its inability to comply with the request of the workers to declare the forenoon of the 1st November, 1948, as a holiday for solar eclipse. On the 3rd November, 1948, the management put up a notice that the stoppage of work on the 1st November amounted to an illegal strike and a break in service within the meaning of the Factories Act (XXV of 1934) and that the management had decided that the workers who had participated in the said strike would not be entitled to holidays with pay as provided by the Act. This position was not accepted by the Madras Labour Union. The Madras Government by an order dated the 11th July, 1949, made under section 10(1)	Facts
S. C. C. Anthoni Pillai (President, Madras Labour Union) for the respondents.	RespArg
1952. December 2. The Judgment of the Court Was delivered by MAHAJAN J.
(c) of the Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947), referred this dispute along with certain other disputes to the Industrial Tribunal, Madras. The adjudicator gave the award which was published in the Gazette on 12th October, 1950. By his award the adjudicator found that there could be little doubt that the stoppage of work by the night shift workers on the night of the last November,, 1948, was a strike, that it was an illegal strike, since the textile industry is notified as a public utility industry and there could be no legal strike without a proper issue of notice in the terms prescribed by the Industrial Disputes Act. No such notice had been given. In view of this finding he upheld the view of the management that the continuity of service of the workers was broken by the interruption caused by the illegal strike and that as a consequence the workers who participated in such strike were not entitled to annual holidays with pay under section 49-B (1) of the Factories Act. He, however, considered that the total deprivation of leave with pay ordered by the management was a severe punishment and on the assumption that he had power to scrutinize the exercise of the discretion by the management in awarding punishment, reduced the punishment by 50 per cent and held that the workers would be deprived of only half their holidays with pay. The decision of the management was varied to this extent.
as meaning-	Precedent
In the result the appeal of the Union on this point was allowed and it was ordered that holidays at full rates as provided for in section 49-A of the Factories Act will have to be calculated in respect of the operatives concerned on the footing that there was no break in the continuity of their service by the stoppage of work on 1st November, 1948. In this appeal it was contended on behalf of the Mills that on a proper construction of section 49-B (1) of the Factories Act: (XXV of 1934) the management was right in its decision that the continuity of service was broken by the interruption caused by the illegal strike and that the workers were not entitled to annual holidays with pay under the said section inasmuch as they would not have completed a period of twelve months' continuous service in the factory, and that the non-permitted absence as a result of concerted refusal to work even for 2 to 4 hours in the course of a working day amounts to an illegal strike and consequently an interruption of service of a workman for the purpose of section 49-B. In our judgment, this contention is well founded. Section 49-B provides-	Section
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil - Appeal No. 89 of 1952. Appeal by 'special leave from the Judgment dated June 27, 1951, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India at Calcutta in Appeals Nos. 94 and 142 of 1950 arising out of the Award of the Second Industrial Tribunal, Madras (published in the Fort St. George Gazette, Madras, dated October 3, (1950).
N. C. Chatterjee (S. N. Mukherjee, with him) for the appellant.
S. C. C. Anthoni Pillai (President, Madras Labour Union) for the respondents.
1952. December 2. The Judgment of the Court Was delivered by MAHAJAN J.
MAHAJAN J.-This is an appeal by special leave from a decision dated 27th June, 1951, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India at Calcutta in appeals Nos. 94 and 142 of 1950, arising out of the award of the Second Industrial Tribunal, Madras.
The relevant facts and circumstances giving rise to the appeal are as follows: On 1st November, 1948, 859 night shift operatives of the carding and spinning department of the Carnatic Mills stopped work, some at 4 p.m., some at 4- 30 p.m. and some at 5 p.m. The stoppage ended at 8 p.m. in both the departments. By 10 p.m, the strike ended completely. The apparent cause for the strike was that the management of the Mills had expressed its inability to comply with the request of the workers to declare the forenoon of the 1st November, 1948, as a holiday for solar eclipse. On the 3rd November, 1948, the management put up a notice that the stoppage of work on the 1st November amounted to an illegal strike and a break in service within the meaning of the Factories Act (XXV of 1934) and that the management had decided that the workers who had participated in the said strike would not be entitled to holidays with pay as provided by the Act. This position was not accepted by the Madras Labour Union. The Madras Government by an order dated the 11th July, 1949, made under section 10(1)
(c) of the Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947), referred this dispute along with certain other disputes to the Industrial Tribunal, Madras. The adjudicator gave the award which was published in the Gazette on 12th October, 1950. By his award the adjudicator found that there could be little doubt that the stoppage of work by the night shift workers on the night of the last November,, 1948, was a strike, that it was an illegal strike, since the textile industry is notified as a public utility industry and there could be no legal strike without a proper issue of notice in the terms prescribed by the Industrial Disputes Act. No such notice had been given. In view of this finding he upheld the view of the management that the continuity of service of the workers was broken by the interruption caused by the illegal strike and that as a consequence the workers who participated in such strike were not entitled to annual holidays with pay under section 49-B (1) of the Factories Act. He, however, considered that the total deprivation of leave with pay ordered by the management was a severe punishment and on the assumption that he had power to scrutinize the exercise of the discretion by the management in awarding punishment, reduced the punishment by 50 per cent and held that the workers would be deprived of only half their holidays with pay. The decision of the management was varied to this extent.
The Mills as well as the-Union appealed against this decision to the Labour Appellate Tribunal. That Tribunal upheld the contention of the Mills that the adjudicator had no power to interfere with and revise the, discretion of the management exercised by it under section 49-B (1). It also upheld the contention of the Union that what happened on the night of the 1st November did not amount to a strike and did not cause any interruption in the workers' service. This is what the Tribunal said:-
In the result the appeal of the Union on this point was allowed and it was ordered that holidays at full rates as provided for in section 49-A of the Factories Act will have to be calculated in respect of the operatives concerned on the footing that there was no break in the continuity of their service by the stoppage of work on 1st November, 1948. In this appeal it was contended on behalf of the Mills that on a proper construction of section 49-B (1) of the Factories Act: (XXV of 1934) the management was right in its decision that the continuity of service was broken by the interruption caused by the illegal strike and that the workers were not entitled to annual holidays with pay under the said section inasmuch as they would not have completed a period of twelve months' continuous service in the factory, and that the non-permitted absence as a result of concerted refusal to work even for 2 to 4 hours in the course of a working day amounts to an illegal strike and consequently an interruption of service of a workman for the purpose of section 49-B. In our judgment, this contention is well founded. Section 49-B provides-
as meaning-	Total Judgement
