Sardar Syedna Tahersaifuddin Saheb vs The State Of Bombay on 27 November, 1957	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 99 of 1954. Appeal from the judgment and order dated the 20th August, 1952, of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 43 of 1952 arising out of Original Suit No. 1262 of 1949. N. C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.	Issue
Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. 1957. November 27. The following Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-On February 28,1934, the Appellant who is the religious head of the Dawoodi Bohra Community, passed an order excommunicating one Tyebbhai Moosaji Koicha. On July 17, 1920, the appellant had excommunicated two persons, Tahirbhai and Hasan Ali, and the validity of the order was questioned in a suit instituted in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Barhampur. The litigation went up to the Privy Council, which held that the appellant as the religious head had the power to excommunicate a member of the community, but that that power could only be exercised after observing the requisite formalities, and as in that case that had not been done, the order of excommunication was invalid. Vide Hasan Ali v. Mansoorali (1).	Facts
Apprehending that the order dated February 28, 1934, was open to challenge under the decision in Hasan Ali v. Mansoorali (supra) on the ground that it had not complied with the requisite formalities, the appellant started fresh proceedings, and on April 28, 1948, passed another order of excommunication. Thereupon, Tyebbhai Moosaji filed the present suit for a declaration that both the orders of excommunication dated February 28, 1934, and April 28, 1948, were invalid and for other consequential reliefs. While this action was pending, the Legislature of the Province of Bombay passed the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act (Bombay XLII of 1949) prohibiting excommunication, and that came into force on November 1, 1949. The plaintiff contended that the effect of this legislation was to render the orders of excommunication illegal. The answer of the appellant to this contention was, firstly, that the Act had no retrospective operation, and that, in consequence, the orders passed on February 28, 1934, and April 28, 1948, were valid, and remained unaffected by it; and secondly, that the Act was itself unconstitutional, because the subject matter of the impugned legislation was not covered by any of the entries in List 2 or 3 of Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, and the Legislature of the Province of Bombay had no competence to enact the law. After the coming into force of the Constitution, the contention was also raised that the right of the defendant to excommunicate members of the com- munity was protected by Arts. 25 and 26 of the Constitution, and that the impugned Act was void as infringing the same. The issues in the action were then settled, and issue No. 19, which was raised with reference to the above contentions, was as follows:	PetArg
provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act of 1949?"
s. 205 of the Government of India Act was wider than that of s. 96 of the Civil Procedure Code, and that the Government was entitled to file the appeal for getting a decision on the validity of the Act, notwithstanding that it had no interest in the claim in the suit. This ruling has, in our opinion, no application to the facts of the present case. Here, the action itself has abated, and there can be no question of an appeal in relation thereto, as an appeal is only a continuation of the suit, and there can be no question of continuing what does not exist. But apart from this, there is another formidable obstacle in the way of the appellant. Under Art. 132, an appeal lies to this Court only against judgments, decrees or final orders. That was also the position under s. 205 of the Government of India Act. Now, the order appealed against is only a decision on one of the issues, and it does not dispose of the suit. In The United Provinces v. Mst. Atiqa Begum and others (supra), there was a decree, and the requirements of s. 205 were satisfied. Here, there is only a finding on a preliminary issue, and there is no decree or final order. The Explanation to Art. 132 provides that:	Section
Applying this test, even if we accept the contention of the appellant that the impugned Act is bad, that would not finally dispose of the suit, as there are other issues, which have to be tried. We are clearly of opinion that the appeal is not competent under Art. 132, and the fact that a certificate has been given does not alter the position. It is said that the certificate is also under Art. 133, but under that article also, an appeal lies Only against judgments, decrees or final orders, and no certificate could be granted in respect of an interlocutory finding. The result is that this appeal must be dismissed, as not maintainable. We should add by way of abundant caution that as we express no opinion on the correctness of the decision under appeal, this order will not preclude the appellant from claiming such rights as he may have, in appropriate proceedings which he may take. In the circumstances, there will be no order as to costs.
Appeal dismissed.	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 99 of 1954. Appeal from the judgment and order dated the 20th August, 1952, of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 43 of 1952 arising out of Original Suit No. 1262 of 1949. N. C. Chatterjee, J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.
Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent. 1957. November 27. The following Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-On February 28,1934, the Appellant who is the religious head of the Dawoodi Bohra Community, passed an order excommunicating one Tyebbhai Moosaji Koicha. On July 17, 1920, the appellant had excommunicated two persons, Tahirbhai and Hasan Ali, and the validity of the order was questioned in a suit instituted in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Barhampur. The litigation went up to the Privy Council, which held that the appellant as the religious head had the power to excommunicate a member of the community, but that that power could only be exercised after observing the requisite formalities, and as in that case that had not been done, the order of excommunication was invalid. Vide Hasan Ali v. Mansoorali (1).
Apprehending that the order dated February 28, 1934, was open to challenge under the decision in Hasan Ali v. Mansoorali (supra) on the ground that it had not complied with the requisite formalities, the appellant started fresh proceedings, and on April 28, 1948, passed another order of excommunication. Thereupon, Tyebbhai Moosaji filed the present suit for a declaration that both the orders of excommunication dated February 28, 1934, and April 28, 1948, were invalid and for other consequential reliefs. While this action was pending, the Legislature of the Province of Bombay passed the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act (Bombay XLII of 1949) prohibiting excommunication, and that came into force on November 1, 1949. The plaintiff contended that the effect of this legislation was to render the orders of excommunication illegal. The answer of the appellant to this contention was, firstly, that the Act had no retrospective operation, and that, in consequence, the orders passed on February 28, 1934, and April 28, 1948, were valid, and remained unaffected by it; and secondly, that the Act was itself unconstitutional, because the subject matter of the impugned legislation was not covered by any of the entries in List 2 or 3 of Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, and the Legislature of the Province of Bombay had no competence to enact the law. After the coming into force of the Constitution, the contention was also raised that the right of the defendant to excommunicate members of the com- munity was protected by Arts. 25 and 26 of the Constitution, and that the impugned Act was void as infringing the same. The issues in the action were then settled, and issue No. 19, which was raised with reference to the above contentions, was as follows:
provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act of 1949?"
s. 205 of the Government of India Act was wider than that of s. 96 of the Civil Procedure Code, and that the Government was entitled to file the appeal for getting a decision on the validity of the Act, notwithstanding that it had no interest in the claim in the suit. This ruling has, in our opinion, no application to the facts of the present case. Here, the action itself has abated, and there can be no question of an appeal in relation thereto, as an appeal is only a continuation of the suit, and there can be no question of continuing what does not exist. But apart from this, there is another formidable obstacle in the way of the appellant. Under Art. 132, an appeal lies to this Court only against judgments, decrees or final orders. That was also the position under s. 205 of the Government of India Act. Now, the order appealed against is only a decision on one of the issues, and it does not dispose of the suit. In The United Provinces v. Mst. Atiqa Begum and others (supra), there was a decree, and the requirements of s. 205 were satisfied. Here, there is only a finding on a preliminary issue, and there is no decree or final order. The Explanation to Art. 132 provides that:
Applying this test, even if we accept the contention of the appellant that the impugned Act is bad, that would not finally dispose of the suit, as there are other issues, which have to be tried. We are clearly of opinion that the appeal is not competent under Art. 132, and the fact that a certificate has been given does not alter the position. It is said that the certificate is also under Art. 133, but under that article also, an appeal lies Only against judgments, decrees or final orders, and no certificate could be granted in respect of an interlocutory finding. The result is that this appeal must be dismissed, as not maintainable. We should add by way of abundant caution that as we express no opinion on the correctness of the decision under appeal, this order will not preclude the appellant from claiming such rights as he may have, in appropriate proceedings which he may take. In the circumstances, there will be no order as to costs.
Appeal dismissed.	Total Judgement
