Collector Of Commercial Taxes Cuttack vs Bharat Sabai Grass Ltd on 19 February, 1958	Case Title
JUDGMENT 1958 AIR (SC) 764 Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 15th November, 1954, of the Orissa High Court in S J C No. 174 of 1951. (Civil Appeal No. 193 of 1956), decided on February 19, 1958.
The Judgment was delivered by S. K. DAS, J. :	Issue
In their order dated July 29, 1952, the learned Judges of the High Court of Orissa thus expressed the contention urged before them on behalf of the assessee :
Taking the view that under the second proviso to the definition of "sale" a power was given to impose tax on a transaction which was a mere agreement to sell, the learned Judges of the High Court held that the question whether the second proviso was ultra vires or not arose, and when the reference was finally heard, the learned Judges referred to the decision of this court in The Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 (1) SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC 193) and answered the question by holding that the assessment was illegal as Entry 48 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act, 1935, did not empower a State Legislature to impose a tax on a a mere agreement to sell.The learned Solicitor-General appearing for the appellant has submitted before us that no such question as was formulated by the learned Judges of the High Court actually arose on the facts found in this case, and he has further submitted that the order calling for the reference and the answer which the High Court ultimately gave are based on a complete misapprehension of the decision in The Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 (1) SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC 193).	PetArg
Let us first see what were the facts found in this case. The Sales Tax Officer who made the assessment on December 16, 1949, proceeded on the footing that there were completed sales (as distinguished from mere agreements to sell) of bamboo and sabai grass in Orissa, and the respondents in spite of sufficient time having been given to them did not produce any account books or any other evidence to prove that the sales took place elsewhere. No question was raised before the Sales Tax Officer that the transactions on which assessment was sought to be made were not "sales" but mere "agreements to sell". The same view was again reiterated by the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax, who was the appellate authority and before whom also the contention was that the sales did not take place in Orissa. He repelled the contention and said that there was no evidence to show that the sales did not take place in Orissa. It may be stated here that admittedly the Orient Paper Mill was situated in Orissa and a sale of bamboo and sabai grass to that paper mill was a sale in Orissa. The respondents tried to make out a case that the Orient Paper Mill was a registered dealer, and therefore they were entitled to exemption under rule 27(2); it was pointed out that it was for the respondents to adduce evidence that a portion of their gross turnover represented sales of non- taxable goods and unless and until they did so, the assessing authority was entitled to construe the total turnover as taxable. Even before the Commissioner, Northern Division, Sambalpur, the position taken was that the sales to the Bengal Mills did not take place in Orissa; this plea was met by pointing out that though the respondents were given an opportunity, they failed to produce evidence to show that the sales took place elsewhere. Therefore, it appears to us that on the facts found no such question of law as was formulated by the High Court actually arose for decision in the present case. There was no finding by any of the assessing authorities that a tax was imposed on "mere agreements to sell" or that the sales of bamboo and sabai grass made by the respondents to different mills in Bengal and Orissa did not involve a transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment.The case of Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 (1) SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC	RespArg
In pursuance of the order of the High Court, a statement of the case was submitted on the question formulated and by its judgment, dated November 15, 1954, the High Court answered the question in the negative and held that the assessment on the respondents was not legal. The present appellant then moved the High Court for a certificate and, this having been refused, the appellant moved this Court and obtained special leave to appeal.
. In the case under our consideration, on the facts found, no question arose of the imposition of a tax on a mere agreement to sell. The definition of "sale" in the Act, unlike the definition in the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act, 1948, did not purport to tax a mere agreement to sell nor did the second proviso thereto purport to do so. What the second proviso did was to fix the situs of the sale in Orissa when the goods were actually in Orissa at the time the contract of sale was made. This is altogether different from imposing a tax on a mere agreement to sell. It is worthy of note that the assessment in this case relates to a pre-Constitution period and we are not concerned in this case with the vexed question of the effect of the second proviso with reference to transactions in inter-State commerce referred to in Article 286 of the Constitution. The proviso has, however, a bearing on the question whether the doctrine of nexus is applicable to sales tax law. That question has been exhaustively dealt with by this Court in Tata Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. v. The State of Bihar (Civil Appeals Nos. 412 and 413 of 1955 decided today) (Since reported at page 267 supra) with regard to a similar proviso in the Bihar Act. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, we are clearly of the view that the decision in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC 193) has no application and the learned Judges of the High Court were in error in thinking that the principle of that decision was attracted to the facts of this case.Therefore, we have come to the conclusion that the reference directed by the Orissa High Court was itself incompetent, because no such question of law as was formulated by that Court arose on the facts of the case and it was quite unnecessary to answer such a question in the present case.	Precedent
It is necessary to explain here, in somewhat greater detail, the reasons why the learned Judges of the High Court of Orissa thought that the particular question of law arose on the facts of the case and called for a reference of that question. The Act received the assent of the Governor- General on April 26, 1947, and was published in the Orissa Gazette on May 14, 1947. Section 1 of the Act came into force at once and the rest of the Act came into force on August 1, 1947. On August 30, 1947, a notification under section 4(1) of the Act was made imposing a tax, with effect from October 1, 1947, on dealers whose turnover exceeded Rs. 5, 000 in the year ending March 31, 1947. We have already stated that sometime in June 1948, a notice was issued to the respondents under section 12(5) of the Act. Section 2(g) of the Act defines what is a "sale" under the Act. We are concerned in this case with the main definition of the word "sale" and the second proviso thereto, which are set out below :Section 2(g).
193) dealt with the definition of "sale" in the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act, XV of 1948, which definition included forward contracts and the point for decision was whether the power to impose tax on the sale of goods under Entry 48 in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, included the power to impose a tax on forward contracts. In that context the distinction between a "sale of goods" and an "agreement for a sale of goods" was pointed out, and the legal position was thus summarised :	Section
In the result, we allow the appeal with costs, and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court of Orissa dated November 15, 1954.	Conclusion
JUDGMENT 1958 AIR (SC) 764 Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 15th November, 1954, of the Orissa High Court in S J C No. 174 of 1951. (Civil Appeal No. 193 of 1956), decided on February 19, 1958.
The Judgment was delivered by S. K. DAS, J. :
In pursuance of the order of the High Court, a statement of the case was submitted on the question formulated and by its judgment, dated November 15, 1954, the High Court answered the question in the negative and held that the assessment on the respondents was not legal. The present appellant then moved the High Court for a certificate and, this having been refused, the appellant moved this Court and obtained special leave to appeal.
It is necessary to explain here, in somewhat greater detail, the reasons why the learned Judges of the High Court of Orissa thought that the particular question of law arose on the facts of the case and called for a reference of that question. The Act received the assent of the Governor- General on April 26, 1947, and was published in the Orissa Gazette on May 14, 1947. Section 1 of the Act came into force at once and the rest of the Act came into force on August 1, 1947. On August 30, 1947, a notification under section 4(1) of the Act was made imposing a tax, with effect from October 1, 1947, on dealers whose turnover exceeded Rs. 5, 000 in the year ending March 31, 1947. We have already stated that sometime in June 1948, a notice was issued to the respondents under section 12(5) of the Act. Section 2(g) of the Act defines what is a "sale" under the Act. We are concerned in this case with the main definition of the word "sale" and the second proviso thereto, which are set out below :Section 2(g).
In their order dated July 29, 1952, the learned Judges of the High Court of Orissa thus expressed the contention urged before them on behalf of the assessee :
Taking the view that under the second proviso to the definition of "sale" a power was given to impose tax on a transaction which was a mere agreement to sell, the learned Judges of the High Court held that the question whether the second proviso was ultra vires or not arose, and when the reference was finally heard, the learned Judges referred to the decision of this court in The Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 (1) SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC 193) and answered the question by holding that the assessment was illegal as Entry 48 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act, 1935, did not empower a State Legislature to impose a tax on a a mere agreement to sell.The learned Solicitor-General appearing for the appellant has submitted before us that no such question as was formulated by the learned Judges of the High Court actually arose on the facts found in this case, and he has further submitted that the order calling for the reference and the answer which the High Court ultimately gave are based on a complete misapprehension of the decision in The Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 (1) SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC 193).
Let us first see what were the facts found in this case. The Sales Tax Officer who made the assessment on December 16, 1949, proceeded on the footing that there were completed sales (as distinguished from mere agreements to sell) of bamboo and sabai grass in Orissa, and the respondents in spite of sufficient time having been given to them did not produce any account books or any other evidence to prove that the sales took place elsewhere. No question was raised before the Sales Tax Officer that the transactions on which assessment was sought to be made were not "sales" but mere "agreements to sell". The same view was again reiterated by the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax, who was the appellate authority and before whom also the contention was that the sales did not take place in Orissa. He repelled the contention and said that there was no evidence to show that the sales did not take place in Orissa. It may be stated here that admittedly the Orient Paper Mill was situated in Orissa and a sale of bamboo and sabai grass to that paper mill was a sale in Orissa. The respondents tried to make out a case that the Orient Paper Mill was a registered dealer, and therefore they were entitled to exemption under rule 27(2); it was pointed out that it was for the respondents to adduce evidence that a portion of their gross turnover represented sales of non- taxable goods and unless and until they did so, the assessing authority was entitled to construe the total turnover as taxable. Even before the Commissioner, Northern Division, Sambalpur, the position taken was that the sales to the Bengal Mills did not take place in Orissa; this plea was met by pointing out that though the respondents were given an opportunity, they failed to produce evidence to show that the sales took place elsewhere. Therefore, it appears to us that on the facts found no such question of law as was formulated by the High Court actually arose for decision in the present case. There was no finding by any of the assessing authorities that a tax was imposed on "mere agreements to sell" or that the sales of bamboo and sabai grass made by the respondents to different mills in Bengal and Orissa did not involve a transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment.The case of Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 (1) SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC
193) dealt with the definition of "sale" in the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act, XV of 1948, which definition included forward contracts and the point for decision was whether the power to impose tax on the sale of goods under Entry 48 in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, included the power to impose a tax on forward contracts. In that context the distinction between a "sale of goods" and an "agreement for a sale of goods" was pointed out, and the legal position was thus summarised :
. In the case under our consideration, on the facts found, no question arose of the imposition of a tax on a mere agreement to sell. The definition of "sale" in the Act, unlike the definition in the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act, 1948, did not purport to tax a mere agreement to sell nor did the second proviso thereto purport to do so. What the second proviso did was to fix the situs of the sale in Orissa when the goods were actually in Orissa at the time the contract of sale was made. This is altogether different from imposing a tax on a mere agreement to sell. It is worthy of note that the assessment in this case relates to a pre-Constitution period and we are not concerned in this case with the vexed question of the effect of the second proviso with reference to transactions in inter-State commerce referred to in Article 286 of the Constitution. The proviso has, however, a bearing on the question whether the doctrine of nexus is applicable to sales tax law. That question has been exhaustively dealt with by this Court in Tata Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. v. The State of Bihar (Civil Appeals Nos. 412 and 413 of 1955 decided today) (Since reported at page 267 supra) with regard to a similar proviso in the Bihar Act. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, we are clearly of the view that the decision in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash 1955 SCR 243; 1954 (5) STC 193) has no application and the learned Judges of the High Court were in error in thinking that the principle of that decision was attracted to the facts of this case.Therefore, we have come to the conclusion that the reference directed by the Orissa High Court was itself incompetent, because no such question of law as was formulated by that Court arose on the facts of the case and it was quite unnecessary to answer such a question in the present case.
In the result, we allow the appeal with costs, and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court of Orissa dated November 15, 1954.	Total Judgement
