The State Of Uttar Pradeshand Others vs H. H. Maharaja Brijendra Singh on 26 August, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 131 of 1956. Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 4, 1954, of the Allahabad High Court in Civil Misc. Writ No. 7976 of 1951.
V. M. Limaye, Mrs. E. Udayaratnam and S. S. Shukla, for the respondent.	Issue
1960. August 26. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad on a certificate granted under Arts. 132 and 133(1)(c) of, the Constitution. The respondent herein was the petitioner in the High Court in one of the petitions which were filed in that Court covering the question which has been raised before us. The appellants before us were the respondents in the High Court. The respondent was the Ruler of the State of Bharatpur, now a part of Rajasthan, and is the owner of the property in dispute known as 'Kothi Kandhari Jadid' in Agra. On January 28, 1950, the Agra Improvement Trust-hereinafter called the Trust passed a resolution under s. 5 of the U.P. Land Acqui- sition (Rehabilitation of Refugees) Act, 1948, (U.P. XXVI of 1948)-hereinafter called the Act-for the acquisition of the property in dispute and expressed its willingness to act as " builder " within the meaning of the provisions of the Act. The Government declared the Trust as the " builder " on May 6, 1950, and an agreement was entered into on November 6, 1950, in terms of the Act, which was published on January 6, 1951. The Trust deposited a sum of Its. 57,800 being the estimated cost of the acquisition on February 27, 1951, and a notification under s. 7 of the Act was published in the U.P. Gazette on July 21, 1951. By sub-s. (2) of s. 7, upon the publication of the notification, the land acquired was to vest absolutely in the State. After the respondent was served with a notice calling upon him to appear before the Compensation Officer at Agra, he filed certain objections challenging the propriety of the acquisition and the vires of the Act. It was also alleged that the Collector, without deciding the matter, proceeded to take possession. The respondent, thereupon, filed a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution in the Allahabad High Court for a writ prohibiting the appellants from acquiring his land or interfering with his rights. This petition was dismissed by the High Court on February 2, 1954. But certain findings were given to which the appellants have taken objection. In its judgment the High Court observed :-	Facts
H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and C. P. Lal, for the appellants.	PetArg
In view of the judgment of this Court in Dhirubha Devisingh Gohil's case (1) the ground of unconstitutionality based on the contravention of s. 299 of the Government of India Act would not be available to the respondent. But it was argued on behalf of the respondent that the amendment of the Constitution which came after the decision of the Allahabad High Court cannot validate the earlier legislation which, at the time it was passed was unconstitutional and reliance was placed upon the judgment of this Court in Saghir Ahmad v. The State of U. P. (2). But in the present case the provisions of the Act have been' specifically saved from any attack on their constitutionality as a consequence of Art. 31-B read with the Ninth Schedule, the effect of which is that the Act cannot be deemed to be void or ever to have become void on the ground of its being hit by the operation of the Government of India Act.
_____________________ (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 691, 695, (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707 at PP. 727-728,	Precedent
abridges any of the rights conferred by any provisions of this Part: One of the rights secured to a person by Part III of the Constitution is a right that his property shall be acquired only for public purposes and under a law authorising such acquisition and providing for compensation which is either fixed by the law itself or regulated by principles specified by the law That is also the very right which was previously secured to the person under section 299 of the Government of India Act ".	Section
In the result, this appeal is allowed and that portion of the judgment of the High Court which declared the two provisos of s.11(1) of the Act to be void, is set aside. The High Court awarded costs against the appellant. That order is also set aside. But in view of the fact that the appeal has succeeded because of a subsequent event, i.e., the incorporation of the Act in the Ninth Schedule, we order that the parties do bear their own costs in this Court.
Appeal allowed.	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 131 of 1956. Appeal from the judgment and decree dated February 4, 1954, of the Allahabad High Court in Civil Misc. Writ No. 7976 of 1951.
H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and C. P. Lal, for the appellants.
V. M. Limaye, Mrs. E. Udayaratnam and S. S. Shukla, for the respondent.
1960. August 26. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad on a certificate granted under Arts. 132 and 133(1)(c) of, the Constitution. The respondent herein was the petitioner in the High Court in one of the petitions which were filed in that Court covering the question which has been raised before us. The appellants before us were the respondents in the High Court. The respondent was the Ruler of the State of Bharatpur, now a part of Rajasthan, and is the owner of the property in dispute known as 'Kothi Kandhari Jadid' in Agra. On January 28, 1950, the Agra Improvement Trust-hereinafter called the Trust passed a resolution under s. 5 of the U.P. Land Acqui- sition (Rehabilitation of Refugees) Act, 1948, (U.P. XXVI of 1948)-hereinafter called the Act-for the acquisition of the property in dispute and expressed its willingness to act as " builder " within the meaning of the provisions of the Act. The Government declared the Trust as the " builder " on May 6, 1950, and an agreement was entered into on November 6, 1950, in terms of the Act, which was published on January 6, 1951. The Trust deposited a sum of Its. 57,800 being the estimated cost of the acquisition on February 27, 1951, and a notification under s. 7 of the Act was published in the U.P. Gazette on July 21, 1951. By sub-s. (2) of s. 7, upon the publication of the notification, the land acquired was to vest absolutely in the State. After the respondent was served with a notice calling upon him to appear before the Compensation Officer at Agra, he filed certain objections challenging the propriety of the acquisition and the vires of the Act. It was also alleged that the Collector, without deciding the matter, proceeded to take possession. The respondent, thereupon, filed a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution in the Allahabad High Court for a writ prohibiting the appellants from acquiring his land or interfering with his rights. This petition was dismissed by the High Court on February 2, 1954. But certain findings were given to which the appellants have taken objection. In its judgment the High Court observed :-
abridges any of the rights conferred by any provisions of this Part: One of the rights secured to a person by Part III of the Constitution is a right that his property shall be acquired only for public purposes and under a law authorising such acquisition and providing for compensation which is either fixed by the law itself or regulated by principles specified by the law That is also the very right which was previously secured to the person under section 299 of the Government of India Act ".
In view of the judgment of this Court in Dhirubha Devisingh Gohil's case (1) the ground of unconstitutionality based on the contravention of s. 299 of the Government of India Act would not be available to the respondent. But it was argued on behalf of the respondent that the amendment of the Constitution which came after the decision of the Allahabad High Court cannot validate the earlier legislation which, at the time it was passed was unconstitutional and reliance was placed upon the judgment of this Court in Saghir Ahmad v. The State of U. P. (2). But in the present case the provisions of the Act have been' specifically saved from any attack on their constitutionality as a consequence of Art. 31-B read with the Ninth Schedule, the effect of which is that the Act cannot be deemed to be void or ever to have become void on the ground of its being hit by the operation of the Government of India Act.
In the result, this appeal is allowed and that portion of the judgment of the High Court which declared the two provisos of s.11(1) of the Act to be void, is set aside. The High Court awarded costs against the appellant. That order is also set aside. But in view of the fact that the appeal has succeeded because of a subsequent event, i.e., the incorporation of the Act in the Ninth Schedule, we order that the parties do bear their own costs in this Court.
Appeal allowed.
_____________________ (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 691, 695, (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707 at PP. 727-728,	Total Judgement
