The Commissioner Of Income-Tax, Bombay vs S. K. F. Ball Bearing Co., Ltd on 10 August, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 9 of 1958. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated February 24, 1955, of the former Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 50/X of 1954.	Issue
1960. August 10. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHAH, J.-Aktiebolaget Svenska Kullakerfabriken of Gothenburg is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden, and is engaged in the manufacture of ball bearing equipment. S. K. F. Ball Bearing Co., Ltd., which will hereinafter be referred to as " the S. K. F." is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913. By an agreement dated January 1, 1939, the S. K. F. was appointed by the Swedish company as its sole selling agent in India. On account ,of the commencement of hostilities in the second world war, a corporation known as the Panrope Corporation was incorporated in the Republic of Panama in 1940, to take over as a war-time arrangement the assets and business of that Swedish company. With effect from July 1, 1947, the Panrope Corporation conveyed the property and business to the Swedish company. In the years 1947, 1948, 1949 and 1950 the S. K. F. sold in India as the agent 'of the Swedish and Panamian companies-which will hereinafter be collectively referred to as the " foreign corporations " the goods manufactured by them. A small quantity of goods was bought by the S. K. F. and sold by it in India, but no question arises in this appeal about the liability to pay income-tax in respect, of sale of those goods and no reference is made herein in respect of those sales. The Income-tax Officer, Companies Circle 11(3), Bombay, exercising powers vested in him by s. 43 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, having appointed the S. K. F. as the statutory agent of the foreign corporations for the assessment year 1948-49, and of the Swedish company for the assessment years 1949-50, 1950-51 and 1951-52, the S. K. F. submitted returns of income for these years in the taxable territory on behalf of the foreign corporations. Clauses 13, 22 and 23 of the agreement dated January 1, 1939, between the S. K. F. and the Swedish company which are material for the purpose of this appeal are as follows:-	Facts
(2) Whether the profits of the Panrope Corporation and the non-resident company in respect of the consignment goods were received in the taxable territories on their behalf ? At the hearing of the reference before the High, Court, counsel for the assessee having conceded that the S. K. F. was not a purchaser of the goods " received on consignment "	PetArg
K. N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant. R. J. Kolah, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondent.
resident company had a business connection in the taxable territories in the years of account ?
The price received by the S. K. F. being received within the taxable territory for and on behalf of the foreign corporations in respect of goods sold, we are unable to hold that the realization of the price in which is embedded the profit is not liable to tax under s. 4(1)(a) as income received, merely because under an independent obligation, the S. K. F. has rendered itself liable to pay the amount equivalent to the price (less commission) even before the price has been realized and has discharged that obligation. In the view taken by us, the second question will be answered in the affirmative in respect of sale of all ,goods where the price has been received by the S.K.F. in the taxable territory, and irrespective of whether the remittance has been made in respect of the goods sold before or after the price was received.	Precedent
The appeal is accordingly allowed to the extent indicated. The appellant will be entitled to his costs in this court and also the costs of the reference in the High Court.
Appeal partly allowed.
-----------------	Conclusion
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 9 of 1958. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated February 24, 1955, of the former Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 50/X of 1954.
K. N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant. R. J. Kolah, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondent.
1960. August 10. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHAH, J.-Aktiebolaget Svenska Kullakerfabriken of Gothenburg is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden, and is engaged in the manufacture of ball bearing equipment. S. K. F. Ball Bearing Co., Ltd., which will hereinafter be referred to as " the S. K. F." is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913. By an agreement dated January 1, 1939, the S. K. F. was appointed by the Swedish company as its sole selling agent in India. On account ,of the commencement of hostilities in the second world war, a corporation known as the Panrope Corporation was incorporated in the Republic of Panama in 1940, to take over as a war-time arrangement the assets and business of that Swedish company. With effect from July 1, 1947, the Panrope Corporation conveyed the property and business to the Swedish company. In the years 1947, 1948, 1949 and 1950 the S. K. F. sold in India as the agent 'of the Swedish and Panamian companies-which will hereinafter be collectively referred to as the " foreign corporations " the goods manufactured by them. A small quantity of goods was bought by the S. K. F. and sold by it in India, but no question arises in this appeal about the liability to pay income-tax in respect, of sale of those goods and no reference is made herein in respect of those sales. The Income-tax Officer, Companies Circle 11(3), Bombay, exercising powers vested in him by s. 43 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, having appointed the S. K. F. as the statutory agent of the foreign corporations for the assessment year 1948-49, and of the Swedish company for the assessment years 1949-50, 1950-51 and 1951-52, the S. K. F. submitted returns of income for these years in the taxable territory on behalf of the foreign corporations. Clauses 13, 22 and 23 of the agreement dated January 1, 1939, between the S. K. F. and the Swedish company which are material for the purpose of this appeal are as follows:-
resident company had a business connection in the taxable territories in the years of account ?
(2) Whether the profits of the Panrope Corporation and the non-resident company in respect of the consignment goods were received in the taxable territories on their behalf ? At the hearing of the reference before the High, Court, counsel for the assessee having conceded that the S. K. F. was not a purchaser of the goods " received on consignment "
We are unable to agree with the reasoning and the ,,conclusion of the High Court. The terms of the agreement make it abundantly clear that the goods " received on consignment " from the foreign corporations were received by the S. K. F. as their selling agent and not as purchaser. The goods, it is true, were sold by the S. K. F. in its own name and not in the name of the foreign corporations, but the goods were still sold for and on behalf of the foreign corporations and the sale proceeds received by the S. K. F. were received not on its own behalf but for and on behalf of its principals. Clauses 9, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18 and 20 of the agreement clearly show that the goods received by the S. K. F. continued to remain the property of the foreign cor- porations till they were sold to the buyers. In the price received for sale of the goods, the profit of the owner was in truth embedded and that profit was liable to be taxed under s. 4(1)(a) of the Indian Income. tax Act if it was received in the taxable territory. It is not disputed that the sale proceeds realized by the S. K. F. in the taxable territory as agent of the foreign corporations before remittances under the terms of the agreement were liable to be taxed. Does the circumstance that the S. K. F. had in discharge of an obligation undertaken by it made remittances under the terms of the agreement before it realized the price of the goods sold alter the nature of the realizations ? The remittances made by the S. K. F. indisputably reached the foreign corporations in respect of all sales outside the taxable territory. But the S. K. F. was their agent for sale of the goods, and for receiving the price in the taxable territory. The relation between the S. K. F. and the foreign corporations was not altered because before realizing the price from the buyers remittances were made to the foreign corporations. The price of goods sold by the S. K. F. whether before or after remittance was realized as the agent of the foreign corporations. If remittance in respect of a sale was made before the price was realized, the S. K. F. became entitled to adjust the account and to take credit for the amount paid out of the realization. What the foreign corporations received under remittances made before or after realization of the price was not the sale proceeds in respect of sales, but amounts. due by the S. K. F. under an obligation expressly undertaken by it under cl. 23 of the agreement. The price of goods sold by the S. K. F. were in all cases received by it within the taxable territory ; and the S. K. F. being the agent for sale, and for receiving the price, the income embedded in the sale proceeds must be deemed to be received by the foreign corporations also within the taxable territory. It is the receipt of income which gives rise under s. 4(1)(a) of the Indian Income-tax Act to liability to pay tax: and the place where the price is received is determinative of the question whether the income is received in the taxable territory.
The price for the goods sold was received only when the buyer paid it and not before, and when the price was received by the S. K. F., the income was received. The remittances by the S. K. F. to the foreign corporations before the price was received did not include income, because income in fact was never received till the price was realized. Again we are unable to agree with the contention of counsel for the S. K. F. that there was a contract of suretyship between the foreign corporations and the S. K. F. and the receipt by the former of the remittances amounted to receipt of the price of the goods. It is not pretended that there was a tripartite contract and the foreign corporations sold the goods directly to the purchasers in India, the S. K. F. having guaranteed payment of the price by the buyers to whom the goods had been sold.
The price received by the S. K. F. being received within the taxable territory for and on behalf of the foreign corporations in respect of goods sold, we are unable to hold that the realization of the price in which is embedded the profit is not liable to tax under s. 4(1)(a) as income received, merely because under an independent obligation, the S. K. F. has rendered itself liable to pay the amount equivalent to the price (less commission) even before the price has been realized and has discharged that obligation. In the view taken by us, the second question will be answered in the affirmative in respect of sale of all ,goods where the price has been received by the S.K.F. in the taxable territory, and irrespective of whether the remittance has been made in respect of the goods sold before or after the price was received.
The appeal is accordingly allowed to the extent indicated. The appellant will be entitled to his costs in this court and also the costs of the reference in the High Court.
Appeal partly allowed.
-----------------	Total Judgement
