Major U.R. Bhatt vs Union Of India on 6 May, 1960	Case Title
JUDGMENT AIR 1962 SC 1344 The Judgment was delivered by SHAH, J Per Shah, J Major U. R. Bhatt, who will hereinafter be referred to as the appellant was appointed Senior Inspector (Fruit Products) in the Central Agricultural Marketing Department of the Government of India on 9 April 1946. The appellant was initially employed on probation for six months and his appointment was liable to be terminated without notice during probation and thereafter, by notice of there months' duration on either side. The appellant continued to work as senior inspector till 17 March 1947. He was then served with a charge-sheet and called upon to show cause why he should not be dismissed or remove from service or otherwise punished. The appellant submitted his written statement on 22 March 1947. On 25 March 1947, he appeared before the Joint Secretary of the Agricultural Department and he was heard in persons. The Joint Secretary made a report recommending that the appellant's employment be terminated according to the terms of the contract by giving him notice. The Minister in charge of the portfolio concerned, however, directed an enquiry after framing fresh charges against the appellant and that in the meanwhile, he be suspended. On 7 May 1947, another chargesheet was served upon the appellant. By that charge-sheet, he was charged with irresponsibility and insubordination and accordingly unfit to hold the post of senior inspector. The appellant submitted a reply to the charges. The case was then posted for hearing on 9 June 1947 before the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, who was appointed the enquiry officer. On that day, Sardar Bahadur Lal Singh, the Fruit Development Adviser, was present at the hearing and was examined. The appellant objected to the procedure adopted by the enquiry officer in using marginal notes made by Sardar Bahadur Lal Singh on the representation made by the appellant. The case then stood adjourned to 10 June 1947. On that day, the appellant met the enquiry officer and intimated that he (the appellant) would not take further part in the proceeding, and promised the enquiry officer to send a letter explaining his reasons for withdrawing from the proceeding. The proceeding was then adjourned till 13 June. The promised letter of the appellant was received on 11 June. The enquiry officer then submitted his report holding that the charges incorporated in the charge- sheet were submitted his report holding that the charges incorporated in the charge-sheet were substantially proved by the evidence on the record. Holding that the appellant was "irresponsible, insubordinate and unreliable, and as such unfit to be kept in the post of the senior inspector,"
The content of the reasonable opportunity under Art. 311 of the Constitution is the same as in S.240(3) of the Government of India Act.
Counsel for the appellant contends that the observations made by Das, C.J., indicate that at both the stages, namely, first before the enquiry officer and secondly, before the authority competent to impose punishment, the public servant concerned should be afforded the three opportunities set out in the judgment in Khem Chand case 1959 (1) LLJ 167 ] (supra). But this contention is, in our judgment, devoid of force. On p. 176, the learned Chief Justice observed, approving the view of the Privy Council in High Commissioner for India v. I. M. Lall [L.R. 75 I.A. 225], that if the public servant has been through the enquiry under rule 55, it would not be reasonable that he should ask for a repetition at that if no enquiry has been held under rule 55 or any analogous rule applicable, then it will be quite reasonable for him to ask for an enquiry. It is evident that an opportunity to who cause is reasonable even if it does not contemplate a further opportunity to examine witnesses provided there has been a fair and full enquiry at an earlier stage before the enquiry officer. In the present case, there was an inquiry held before the enquiry officer. The enquiry officer had afforded to the appellant an opportunity to remain present and to make his defence. It is true that all the witnesses of the State who could have been examined in support of their case were not examined viva voce, but that was because of the conduct of the appellant who declined to participate in the enquiry. He declined to take part in the proceeding and the enquiry officer was, in our view, justified in proceeding to act upon the materials placed before him. Once the appellant expressed a desire not to take further part in the proceeding of the enquiry officer, that officer was entitled to proceed ex parte and to act upon the materials placed before him. The enquiry made by the enquiry officer cannot therefore, be challenged either on the ground of unfairness or incompleteness, the appellant having been afforded the protection of the Constitution guaranteed under S. 240, Cl. (3) of the Government of India Act. The order of discharge from service passed against him by order of the Governor- General is not liable to be questioned on the ground that the materials may not have justified the passing of that order. It is not within the competence of the civil Court to sit in judgment over the decision of the authority who is competent by law to dismiss a public servant provided he has been afforded an opportunity to defend himself consistently with the substance of the constitutional guarantee.On that view, this appeal must fail and is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs.	Total Judgement
