The State Of Bombay vs M/S. Ratilal Vadilal And Bros on 15 November, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 429 of 1959. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 6, 1957 of the former Bombay Sales Tax Tribunal in Appeal No.6 of 1956.
1960. November 15. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by HIDAYATULLAH, J.-The State of Bombay has appealed to this Court with special leave, against an order of the Sales Tax Tribunal, Bombay, dated December 6, 1957, by which the Tribunal allowing the appeal before it, set aside an order of the Collector of Sales Tax passed under s. 27 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953.
The respondents, Ratilal Vadilal & Bros., are commission agents doing business as clearing and transport contractors. On June 25, 1954, they applied to the Collector of Sales Tax, Bombay, under ss. 27(a), (b) and (c) of the Act describing the nature of their business, citing one instance thereof, for determination of the question whether they could be called "dealers " within the Act. The Collector by his order held that they were dealers, and were required to register themselves under the Act. On appeal, the Tribunal held otherwise, and hence this appeal by the State of Bombay.	Issue
C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. R. Khanna and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.	PetArg
N. A. Palkhivala, S. P. Mehta, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondents.
One Nanalal Karsandas, a brick manufacturer, was allotted a priority certificate in respect of 22 tons of coal on June 17, 1954. He dealt with M/s. S.C. Rungta Colliery, Burhar, through the respondents. The consignment was in the name of Karsandas, but the bill was sent by the Colliery to the respondents, and the respondents, in their turn, made out a bill in which they charged, in addition to the amount of the bill of the Colliery, a sum of Rs. 22 as their commission. The liability to pay the Colliery rested upon the respondents, but they claimed to be acting as mere "middlemen " between the Colliery and Karsandas. The respondents stated that their business was along these lines with other constituents also, and asked the Collector to determine whether they could be described as "dealers" within the Act, and required registration.	RespArg
The matter relates to a time after the Colliery Control Order, 1945, came into force. Under that Order, no person could acquire or purchase coal from a colliery except under authority of the Central Government for which purpose he had to obtain a priority certificate from the State Coal Controller. Under the scheme of the Order, del credere agents were allowed to act and to charge a commission of one rupee per ton of coal.	Section
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 429 of 1959. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 6, 1957 of the former Bombay Sales Tax Tribunal in Appeal No.6 of 1956.
C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. R. Khanna and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.
N. A. Palkhivala, S. P. Mehta, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondents.
1960. November 15. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by HIDAYATULLAH, J.-The State of Bombay has appealed to this Court with special leave, against an order of the Sales Tax Tribunal, Bombay, dated December 6, 1957, by which the Tribunal allowing the appeal before it, set aside an order of the Collector of Sales Tax passed under s. 27 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953.
The respondents, Ratilal Vadilal & Bros., are commission agents doing business as clearing and transport contractors. On June 25, 1954, they applied to the Collector of Sales Tax, Bombay, under ss. 27(a), (b) and (c) of the Act describing the nature of their business, citing one instance thereof, for determination of the question whether they could be called "dealers " within the Act. The Collector by his order held that they were dealers, and were required to register themselves under the Act. On appeal, the Tribunal held otherwise, and hence this appeal by the State of Bombay.
It appears that no action was taken to ask for 'a reference to the High Court of Bombay under s. 34(1) read with ss. 30(1) and (2) of the Act. We have frequently noticed that all the remedies which are open to an appellant are not first exhausted before moving this Court. Ordinarily, this Court will not allow the High Court to be bypassed in this manner, and the proper course for an appellant is to exhaust all his remedies before invoking the jurisdiction of this Court under Art. 136. In the present case, however, the matter is simple, and the learned counsel for the respondent requested us to determine the question, stating that his client who was a small trader and who made the application for the clarification of the law, would be dragged through Courts once again, if we were to decide this appeal on this short point. In view of this, though we decide this appeal, we must not be held to lay down a cursus curiae for this Court.
The matter relates to a time after the Colliery Control Order, 1945, came into force. Under that Order, no person could acquire or purchase coal from a colliery except under authority of the Central Government for which purpose he had to obtain a priority certificate from the State Coal Controller. Under the scheme of the Order, del credere agents were allowed to act and to charge a commission of one rupee per ton of coal.
One Nanalal Karsandas, a brick manufacturer, was allotted a priority certificate in respect of 22 tons of coal on June 17, 1954. He dealt with M/s. S.C. Rungta Colliery, Burhar, through the respondents. The consignment was in the name of Karsandas, but the bill was sent by the Colliery to the respondents, and the respondents, in their turn, made out a bill in which they charged, in addition to the amount of the bill of the Colliery, a sum of Rs. 22 as their commission. The liability to pay the Colliery rested upon the respondents, but they claimed to be acting as mere "middlemen " between the Colliery and Karsandas. The respondents stated that their business was along these lines with other constituents also, and asked the Collector to determine whether they could be described as "dealers" within the Act, and required registration.	Total Judgement
