Pandit M. S. M. Sharma vs Shri Sri Krishna Sinha And Others on 12 December, 1958	Case Title
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 122 of 1958. Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of Fundamental rights.
The action of the Privileges Committee raised constitutional points affecting the petitioners fundamental right of freedom of expression.
Sir, I give notice that I want to raise the following question involving a breach of privilege of the House, after question hour today.
Parliamentary privilege is defined as " the sum of the peculiar rights enjoyed by each House collectively as a constituent part of the High Court of Parliament, and by members of each House individually, without which they could not discharge their functions, and which exceed those possessed by other bodies or individuals " (1). According to the same author " privilege, though part of the law of the land, is to a certain extent an exemption from the ordinary law ". The privileges of Parliament are of two kinds, namely, (i) those which are common to both Houses and	Issue
On May 30, 1957, there was a debate in the Bihar Legislative Assembly when M. P. N. Singh, one of the oldest members of the Assembly, made a speech the gist of which was a criticism of the administration of Bihar as run by Dr. S. K. Sinha, the Chief Minister, and cited certain instances of favouritism. At this stage the Speaker held that a portion of the speech was objectionable and ordered it to be struck off and expunged. It was a general statement. No specific direction was given to the Press. The opposite party was claiming the right to prohibit all publication of proceedings a right which the House of Commons possesses with its own history, but never exercises it. The speech was made on May 30, 1957, and the official authorised report was published and made available on January 2, 1958. 'The Search Light', being a daily newspaper, came out on May 31 with what happened in the Assembly. A privilege motion was said to have been moved and referred to the Committee of Privileges; no voting was taken and no time limit was given for the presentation of the report which was required under the rules of the House. If no time limit was prescribed then under rule 215 the report was to be submitted within a month.
Finding that things had begun to move and apprehending an adverse outcome of the enquiry to be held by the Committee of Privileges (respondent 2), the petitioner moved the High Court at Patna under Art. 226 for an appropriate writ;, order or direction restraining and prohibiting the respondents from proceeding further with the enquiry referred to above. It appears that on August 29, 1958, the Art. 226 petition came up for preliminary hearing and after it had been urged for a day and a half before the High Court for admission, the petitioner on September 1, 1958, withdrew that petition allegedly " with a view to avail the fundamental rights granted to him under Art. 32 of the Constitution."	Facts
1958, Oct. 16, 17, 28, 29, 30. Basdeva Prasad and Naunit Lal, for the petitioner :-The main question to be considered in the case is as to whose privilege has been involved and violated-those of the press or the House of the Legislature. Notice served on the petitioner by the Privileges Committee of the Bihar Assembly is illegal and invalid and the Constitution of the Privileges Committee is illegal as the Chief Minister of the State Dr. S. K. Sinha himself has been the Chairman of the Committee.
The present petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution was filed on September 5, 1958. The petitioner contends that the said notice and the proposed action by the Committee of Privileges (respondent 2) are in violation of the petitioner's fundamental rights to freedom of speech and expression under Art. 19(1)(a) and to the protection of his personal liberty under Art. 21 and the petitioner claims by this petition to enforce those fundamental rights. An affidavit in opposition affirmed by Shri Enayatur Rahman, the present incumbent of the office of respondent 3, has been filed on behalf of the respondents wherein it is maintained that the report contained in the offending publication was not in accordance with the authorised report of the proceedings in the House in that it contained even those remarks which, having been, by order of the Speaker, directed to be expunged, did not form part of the proceedings.
any State Legislature including portions of speeches directed to be expunged along with a note that that portion had been directed to be so expunged. The respondents before us do not contend that the petitioner's freedom of speech and expression is confined only to the publication of his own sentiments, feelings, opinions, ideas and views but does not extend to the publication of news or of reports of proceedings or of views of others or that such last mentioned publications are not covered by the interpretation put upon the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a) by this Court in the three decisions referred to above or that the case of Srinivasa v. The State, of Madras (1), which apparently supports the petitioner, was wrongly decided. For the purposes of this case, therefore, we are relieved of the necessity for examining the larger questions and have to proceed on the footing that the freedom of speech and expression conferred on citizens includes the right to publish news and reports of proceedings in public meetings or in Parliament or State Legislatures. The respondents, however, deny that the petitioner has the absolute right broadly formulated as here in before mentioned. They urge, inter alia, that under Art. 194(3) Parliament and the State Legislatures have the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the House of Commons of British Parliament and those powers, privileges and immunities prevail over the freedom of speech and expression conferred on citizens under Art. 19(1)(a).
Besides a few minor miscellaneous points raised by the learned advocate for the petitioner, which will be dealt with in due course, two principal points arising on the pleadings have been canvassed before us and they are formulated thus:-
194(3) prevail over the fundamental right of the petitioner under Art. 19(1)(a) ?
Legislature of the State of Bihar has not made any law with respect to the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of the Legislature as enumerated in entry 39 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution just as Parliament has made no law with respect to the matters enumerated in entry 74 of List I of that Schedule. Therefore under the latter part of cl. (3) of Art. 194 the Legislative Assembly of Bihar has all the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the House of Commons at the commencement of our Constitution. What, then, were the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons which are relevant for the purposes of the present petition ?
Seeing that the present proceedings have been initiated on a petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution and as the petitioner may not be entitled, for reasons stated above, to avail himself of Art. 19(1)(a) to support this application, learned advocate for the petitioner falls back upon Art. 21 and contends that the proceedings before the Committee of Privileges threaten to deprive him of personal liberty otherwise (1) [1951] S.C R. 127.
The next argument founded on non-compliance with the rules is based on r. 215. Clause (i) of that rule provides that the Committee of Privileges should meet as soon as may be after the question has been referred to it and from time to time thereafter till a report is made within the time fixed by the House. In this case the House admittedly did not fix a time within which the report was to be made by the Committee of Privileges. This circumstance immediately attracts the proviso, according to which where the House does not fix any time for the presentation of the report, the report has to be presented within one month of the date on which the reference to the Committee was made. Learned advocate for the petitioner argues that one month's time had long gone past and, therefore, the Committee of Privileges became functus officio and cannot, under the rules, proceed with the reference. There is no substance in this contention, because the second proviso to cl. (i) of r. 215 clearly provides that the House may at any time on a motion being made direct that the time for the presentation of the report by the Committee be extended to a date specified in the motion. The words " at any time " occurring in the second proviso quite clearly indicate that this extension of time may be within the time fixed by the House or, on its failure to do so, within the time fixed by the first proviso or even thereafter, but before the report is actually made or presented to the House (Cf. Raja Har Narain Singh v. Chaudhrain Bhagwant Kuar) (1). Further, the question of time within which the Committee of Privileges is to make its report to the House is a matter of internal management of the affairs of the House and a matter between the House and its Committee and confers no right on the party whose conduct is the subject matter of investigation (1) (1891) L.R. 18 I.A. 55, 58.
The next argument is that the Committee cannot proceed to investigate what has not been referred to it. Reference is made to the resolution of the Committee (Annexure 11 to the petition) and the notice issued to the petitioner (Annexure I to the petition). It is said that while the Committee's resolution speaks of publishing " a perverted and unfaithful report of the proceedings of the Assembly relating to the speech of Maheshwar Prasad, Narayan Sinha M.L.A." including the expunged portion thereof, the notice simply refers to "	PetArg
We now proceed to consider the other points raised by learned counsel for the petitioner. He argues that assuming that the Legislative Assembly has the powers, privileges and immunities it claims and that they override the fundamental right of the petitioner, the Legislative Assembly, nevertheless, must exercise those privileges and immunities in accordance with the standing orders laying down the rules of procedure governing the conduct of its business made in exercise of powers under Art. 208. Rule 207 lays down the conditions as to the admissibility of a motion of privilege. According to cl. (ii) of this rule the motion must relate to a specific matter of recent occurrence. The speech was delivered on May 30,1957, and Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha M.L.A. sent his notice of motion on June 10, 1957, that is to say, 10 days after the speech had been delivered. The matter that occurred 10 days prior to the date of the submission of the notice of motion cannot be said to be a specific matter of recent occurrence. It is impossible for this Court to prescribe a particular period for moving a privilege motion so as to make the subject matter of the motion a specific matter of recent occurrence. This matter must obviously be left to the discretion of the Speaker of the House of Legislature to determine whether the subject matter of the motion is or is not a specific matter of recent occurrence. The copies of the proceedings marked as Annexure D in Annexure III to the petition do not disclose that any objection was taken by any member on the ground that the matter was not a specific matter of recent occurrence. We do not consider that there is any substance in this objection.
The next argument urged by learned advocate for the petitioner is that, after the House had referred the matter to the committee of privileges, nothing was done for about one year, and after such a lapse of time the committee has suddenly woke up and resuscitated the matter only with a view to penalise the petitioner. In paragraph 17 of the petition the charge of mala fides is thus formulated:-
This passage succinctly gives the principles underlying the doctrine that in a democratic country, debates in Parliament are public and there should not be any prohibition against the publication of the said debates.	RespArg
On June 10, 1957, one Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha, a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, gave notice to the Secretary, Bihar Legislative Assembly (respondent 3) that he wanted to raise a question of the breach of privilege of the House. That notice was in the following terms "To The Secretary, Bihar Legislative Assembly, Patna.
Halam in his Constitutional History of England expresses the same view by saying that liberty of the Press consists merely in exemption from the licenser. To the same effect are the observations of Lord Mansfield, C. J., in King v. Dean of St. Asaph (2). The liberty of the Press, therefore, primarily consists in (1) May's Constitutional History of England, Vol. ii PP. 240-41.
of the law;........... Indeed during the British period of our history the Press as such had no higher or 'better rights than the individual citizen. In Arnold v. King Emperor (1) which was a case of an appeal by the editor of a newspaper against his conviction for criminal libel under s. 499 of the Indian Penal Code, Lord Shaw of Dunfermline in delivering the judgment of the Privy Council made the following observations at p. 169:-
........................................................ ........................................................ (2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence."
(1) (1914) L.R. 41 I.A. 149.
It will be noticed that this Article guarantees to all citizens freedom of speech and expression but does not specifically or separately provide for liberty of the Press. It has, however, been held that the liberty of the Press is implicit in the freedom of speech and expression which is conferred on a citizen. Thus, in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras (1) this Court has held that freedom of speech and expression includes the freedom of propagation of ideas and that freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation. In Brijbhushan v. The State of Delhi (2) it has been laid down by this Court that the imposition of pre-censorship on a journal is a restriction on the liberty of the Press which is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression declared by Art. 19(1)(a). To the like effect are the observations of Bhagwati, J., who, in delivering the unanimous judgment of this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Union of India(1) said at page 118 that freedom of speech and expression includes within its scope the freedom of the Press. Two things should be noticed. A non-citizen running a newspaper is not entitled to the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression and, therefore, cannot claim, as his fundamental right, the benefit of the liberty of the Press. Further, being only a right flowing from the freedom of speech and expression, the liberty of the Press in India stands on no higher footing than the freedom of speech and expression of a citizen and that no privilege attaches to the Press as such, that is to say, as distinct from the freedom of the citizen. In short, as regards citizens running a newspaper the position under our Constitution is the same as it was when the Judicial Committee decided the case of Arnold v. The King Emperor (4) and as regards non-citizens the position may even be worse. The petitioner claims that as a citizen and an editor of a newspaper he has the absolute right, subject, of course, to any law that may be protected by el. (2) of Art. 19, to publish a true and faithful report of the publicly heard and seen proceedings of Parliament or (1) [1950] S.C.R. 594.
(3) [1959] S.C.R. 12.
(4) (1914) S.C.R. 41 I.A. 149.
As pointed out in May's Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., p. 151, in the early days of British History the maintenance of its privileges was of vital importance to the House of Commons. They were necessary to preserve its independence of the King and the Lords and, indeed, to its very existence. The privileges of the House of Commons have been grouped under two heads, namely, (1) those demanded of the Crown by the Speaker of the House of Commons at the commencement of each Parliament and granted as a matter of course and (2) those not so demanded by the Speaker. Under the first heading come (a) freedom from arrest (claimed in 1554), (b) freedom of speech (claimed in 1541), (c) the right of access to the Crown (claimed in 1536) and (d) the right of having the most favourable construction placed upon its proceedings. The second head comprises (i) the right to the due composition of its own body, (ii) regulate its own proceedings, (iii) the right strangers, (iv) the right to prohibit publication of its debates and (v) the right to enforce observation of its privileges by fine, imprisonment and expulsion (1). Admonition and reprimand are milder forms of punishment. The privileges of the House of Commons under the first head are claimed at the commencement of every Parliament by the Speaker addressing the Lord Chancellor on behalf of the Commons. They are claimed as "
(2) Encyclopaedia of Parliament by Norman Widling and Laundy,p. 451.
any arguments or speech whatsoever The House of Commons of the Long Parliament in 1641 framed a standing order " that no member shall either give a copy or publish in print anything that he shall speak in the House " and " that all the members of the House are enjoined to deliver out no copy or notes of anything that is brought into the House, or that is propounded or agitated in this House ". In that critical period it was a necessary precaution. So strict was the House about this privilege that for printing a collection of his own speeches without such leave, Sir E. Derring was expelled from the House and imprisoned in the Tower and his book was ordered to be burnt by the common hangman. This standing order has not up to this date been abrogated or repealed. In 1680 to prevent inaccurate accounts of the business done, the Commons directed their " votes and proceedings, without any reference to the debates, to be printed under the direction of the Speaker. After the Revolution of 1688 frequent resolutions were passed by both Houses of Parliament from 1694 to 1698 to restrain newsletter writers from " intermeddling with their debates or other proceedings " or " giving any account of minute of the debates ". But such was the craving of the people for political news that notwithstanding these resolutions and the punishment of offenders imperfect reports went on being published in newspapers or journals. Amongst the papers were Boyer's " Political State of Great Britain ", " London Magazine ", and " Gentleman's Magazine " in which reports of debates were published under such titles as " Proceedings of a Political Club " and " Debates in the Senate of Magna Lilliputia ". In 1722 the House of Commons passed the following resolutions:
In 1738 the publication of its proceedings was characterised in another resolution of the House of Commons as " a high indignity and a notorious breach of privilege The publication of debates in the " Middlesex Journal" brought down the wrath of the House of Commons on the printers who were ordered to attend the House. The printers not having been found warrants were issued for their arrest and one printer was arrested and brought before Alderman John Wilkes who immediately discharged him on the ground that no crime had been committed. Another printer was arrested and brought before another Alderman who, likewise, discharged the prisoner inasmuch as he was not accused of having committed any crime. By way of reprisal the House of Commons imprisoned the Lord Mayor and an Alderman, both of whom were the members of the House. Both men, on their release, were honoured in a triumphal procession from the Tower of London to the Mansion House. After this political controversy, debates in both Houses continued to be reported with impunity, although technically such reporting was a breach of privilege. Accurate reporting was, however, hampered by many difficulties, for the reporters had no accommodation in the House and were frequently obliged to wait for long periods in the halls or on the stairways and were not permitted to take notes. The result was that the reports published in the papers were full of mistakes and misrepresentations. After the House of Commons was destroyed by fire in 1834, galleries in temporary quarters were provided for the convenience of reporters, and in the new House of Commons a separate gallery was provided for the Press. In 1836 the Commons provided for the publication of parliamentary papers and reports, which led to the conflict between the House of Commons and the courts, which was decided in Stockdale v. Hansard (2), where Lord Chief Justice Denman held that (1) 20 journals of the House of Commons, p. 99; quoted in Frank Thayer's Legal Control of the Press, pp. 28-29. (2) Moody and Robson, 9. 174 Eng. Rep. 196; also see (1839) 9 A. & E. Reports, Eng. Q.B. 1; 112 Eng. Rep. 1112.
that the question raised and actually decided in that case, as formulated by Cockburn, C. J., himself at p. 82, was simply this:-
The issue was between the publisher and the person whose character had been attacked. The question of the privilege, as between the House and the newspaper, was not in issue at all. In the next place, the observations relied upon as bearing on the question of privilege of Parliament were not at all necessary for deciding that case and, as Frank Thayer points out at p. 32 of his Legal Control of the Press, ',this part of the opinion is purely dictum ". In the third place, the following observations of the learned Chief Justice clearly indicate that, as between the House and the Press, the privilege does exist:-
Frank Thayer at pp. 31-32 expresses the same view in the following terms:-
May in his Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., p. 118 puts the matter thus:-
Several instances are given in May's Parliamentary Practice at pp. 118-19 where proceedings have been taken for breach of privilege including a case of the publication in 1801 of a proceeding which the House of Lords had ordered to be expunged from the journal. It is said that that was a case of privilege of the House of Lords and not a case of privilege of the House of Commons and it is pointed out that there has been no instance of such a claim of privilege having been made by the House of Commons for over a century. In the first place, it should be remembered that this privilege, as stated in Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, p. 351, is a common privilege claimed by both Houses and, if the House of Lords could assert and exercise it in 1801, there is no reason to suppose that the House of Commons will not be able to do so if any occasion arises for its assertion or exercise. If the House of Commons has not done so for a long time it must rather be assumed that no occasion had arisen for the assertion and exercise of this power than that it had ceased to have the power at all (Cf. the observations in Wason v. Walter) (1) and In re: Banwarilal Roy (2)). Further the fact that the House of Commons in 1875 rejected Lord Hartington's motion referred to above also clearly indicates that the House of Commons is anxious to preserve this particular privilege. It is interesting also to note the new point that arose in the House of Commons regarding the publication of certain proceedings in August 1947. A Committee of Privileges found that one Mr. Evelyn Walkden, member for Doncaster, had revealed the proceedings of a private party meeting to a newspaper. The Committee thought that the practice of holding party meetings of a confidential character had become well- established and must be taken as a normal and everyday incident of parliamentary procedure. The Committee felt that attendance at such meetings within the precincts of the Palace of Westminster during the session was part of the member's normal duties and the publication by the handing out of a report of the proceedings amounted to a breach of the privilege of the House. It is true that the House only resolved that Mr. Walkden was guilty of dishonourable conduct, but did not expel him but it also passed a resolution that in future any person offering payment for the disclosure of such information would incur the House's grave displeasure (3). In this case the inquiry was with regard to the conduct of a member for having committed a breach of the privilege of the House by publishing the pro- ceedings to an outsider. The point, however, to note is that whatever doubts there might have been as to whether the proceedings of the private party meetings could be equated with the regular proceedings of (1) (1868) L.R. IV Q.B. 73.
(2) 48 C.W. N. 766, 787.
the House of Commons, there was, nevertheless, no question or doubt about the existence of the power or privilege of the House to forbid publication of the proceedings of the House. This case also shows that the House of Commons had not only not abandoned its power or privilege of prohibiting the publication of its proceedings proper but also considered the question of applying this power or privilege to the publication by a member of the proceedings that took place in a private party meeting held within the precincts of the House.
(2) The Statesman dated November 20, 1958.
194(3) does not, in terms, purport to be an exception to Art. 19(1)(a) ;
(iii) that Art. 19, which enunciates a transcendental principle and confers on the citizens of India indefeasible and fundamental rights of a permanent nature,, is enshrined in Part III of our Constitution, which, in view of its subject matter, is more important, enduring and sacrosanct than the rest of the provisions of the Constitution, but that the second part of Art. 194(3) is of the nature of a transitory provision which, from its very nature, cannot override the fundamental rights;
(v) that the observations in Anand Bihari Mishra v. Ram Sahay (1) and the decision of this Court in Gunupati Keshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan (2) clearly establish that Art. 194(3) is subject to the fundamental rights. The arguments, thus formulated, sound plausible and even attractive, but do not bear close scrutiny, as will be presently seen.
Article 194 has already been quoted in extenso. It is quite clear that the subject matter of each of its four clauses is different. Clause (1) confers on the members freedom of speech in the Legislature, subject, of course, to certain provisions therein referred to. Clause (2) gives immunity, to the members or any person authorised by the House to publish any report etc. from legal proceedings. Clause (3) confers certain powers. Privileges and immunities on the House of the Legislature of a State and on the members and the committees thereof and finally el. (4) extends the pro- visions of cls. (1) to (3) to persons who are not members of the House, but who, by virtue of the Constitution, have the right to speak and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of the House or any committee thereof. In the second place, the fact that cl. (1) has been expressly made subject to the provisions of the Constitution but cls. (2) to (4) have not been stated to (1) A.1.R. (1952) M.B. 31, 43.
extent of such repugnancy. it must not be overlooked that the provisions of Art. 105(3) and Art. 194(3) are constitutional laws and not ordinary laws made by Parliament or the State Legislatures and that, therefore, they are as supreme as the provisions of Part III. Further, quite conceivably our Constitution makers, not knowing what powers, privileges and immunities Parliament or the Legislature of a State may arrogate and claim for its Houses- members or committees, thought fit not to take any risk and accordingly made such laws subject to the provisions of Art. 13 ; but that knowing and being satisfied with the reasonableness of the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons at the commencement of the Constitution, they did not in their wisdom, think fit to make such powers, privileges and immunities subject to the fundamental right conferred by Art. 19(1)(a). We must, by applying the cardinal rules of construction ascertain the intention of the Constitution makers from the language used by them. In this connection the observations made in Anantha Krishnan v. State of Madras (1) by Venkatarama Aiyar, J., appear to us to be apposite and correct:-
Article 19(1)(a) and Art. 194(3) have to be reconciled and the only way of reconciling the same is to read Art. 19(1)(a) as subject to the latter part of Art. 194(3), just as Art. 31 has been read as subject to Art. 265 in the cases of Ramjilal v. Income-tax Officer, Mohindargarh (1) and Laxmanappa Hanumantappa v. Union of India (2), where this Court has held that Art. 31(1) has to be read as referring to deprivation of property otherwise than by way of taxation. In the light of the foregoing discussion, the observations in the Madhya Bharat case (3) relied on by the petitioner, cannot, with respect, be supported as correct. Our decision in Gunupati Keshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan (4), also relied on by learned advocate for the petitioner, proceeded entirely on a concession of counsel and -cannot be regarded as a considered opinion on the subject. In our judgment the principle of harmonious construction must be adopted and so construed, the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a), which are general, must yield to Art. 194(1) and the latter part of its el. (3) which are special.
(3) A.I.R. (1952) M.B. 31, 43, (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769.
Reference is then made to rr. 208 and 209 which lay down the procedure as to what is to happen if any objection is taken to leave being granted to the mover to move his motion. It is said that Shri Ramcharitra Sinha M.L.A. had raised an objection to leave being granted to Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move the privilege motion. This allegation in the petition does not appear to be borne out by the account of proceedings in the House to which reference has been made. Shri Ramcharitra Sinha only wanted to know the convention relating to the question of admissibility of such a motion and the Speaker accordingly read out el. (ii) of r. 208. After that Shri Ramcharitra Sinha did not say anything further. The Speaker then said that he understood that there was no opposition in the matter and, therefore, the Hon'ble member was to be understood as having received the leave of the House and called upon him to say what be wanted to say. Thereupon, as stated earlier, Shri Karpuri Thakur wanted to know what had been published in the Searchlight of May 31, 1957, and what ought not to have been published. The Speaker thereupon read out the notice submitted by Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha which concisely referred to the subject matter of the motion and contained a reference to the issue of the Searchlight of May 31, 1957, a copy of which was filed along with the notice. After the notice had been read the Speaker permitted Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move his privilege motion, which the latter did. There was no amendment proposed and the Speaker then stated what the question before the House was, Nobody having indicated his opposition, he declared the motion to be carried. There was, in the circumstances, no non-compliance with the provisions of r. 208 read with r. 209.
on facts which were not mentioned in the petition but were put forward in a rejoinder to which the respondents had no opportunity to reply.
At the outset it would be convenient to clear the ground of the subsidiary ramifications falling outside the field of controversy and focus on the point that directly arises in this case. We are not concerned here with the undoubted right of a State Legislature to control and regulate its domestic affairs. In " Cases in Constitutional Law " by Keir and Lawson, it is stated, at page 126, as follows:
In Romesh Thappar v. The State of Madras (1), this Court ruled that freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas and that freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation. This freedom is, therefore, comprehensive enough to take in the freedom of the press. The said view is accepted and followed in Brij Bhushan v. The State of Delhi (2). To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Union of India (3), where Bhagwati, J., delivering the judgment of the Court, held that freedom of speech and expression includes within its scope the -freedom of the Press. In Srinivasan v. The State of Madras (4) it was held, on the basis of the view expressed by this Court, that the terms " freedom of speech and expression " would include the liberty to propagate not only one's own views but also the right to print matters which are not one's own views but have either been borrowed from someone else or are printed under the direction of that person. I would, therefore, proceed to, consider the argument advanced on the basis that the freedom of speech in Art. 19(1)(a) takes in also the freedom of the Press in the comprehensive sense indicated by me supra. The importance of the freedom of speech in a democratic country cannot be over-emphasized, and in recognition thereof, cl. (2) of Art. 19 unlike other clauses of that Article, confines the scope of the restrictions on the said freedom within comparatively narrower limits. Clause (2) enables the State to impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the said right in the interest of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or (1) [1950] S.C.R. 594. (2) [1950] S.C.R. 605. (3) [1959] S.C.R. 12, 118. (4) A.I.R. (1951) Mad. 70.
The said conclusion would be sufficient to dispose of this petition. But as it was argued at some length, it would be as well that I expressed my opinion on the question of the existence and the extent -of the relevant privileges of the House of Commons at the commencement of the Constitution. Before considering that question, it would be convenient to notice briefly the scope of a Court's jurisdiction to investigate the nature and the extent of the privilege claimed by the House of Commons. It is often said that each House of Parliament is the sole judge of its own privileges. But early in the history of British Parliament the question of the scope of that equivocal statement was raised and it was contended that the House's jurisdiction was confined only within the limits of the privileges as defined by the Courts of Common Law. The said question was raised and decided in Ashby v. White (1), Paty's Case (2), Stockdale v. Hansard (3) and in the Case of the Sheriff of Middlesex(1). In the said cases, the Common Law rights of a citizen were threatened by the House of Commons on the ground that the person concerned committed a breach of the privilege of the House. The combined effect of these decisions is that " the Courts deny to the Houses the right to determine the limits of their privileges, while allowing them within those limits exclusive jurisdiction " In Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution, the principle has been neatly stated, at page 190, thus:-
A history of the said privilege is given in May's Parliamentary Practice as well as in Halsbury's Laws of England. In Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edition, Volume 24 (Lord Hailsham's Edition), it is stated at pages 350-351 as follows:
206, 207. But, in spite of the attitude of the House, unofficial reports of the proceedings of the House of Commons were still published, and in 1771, during the disturbances caused by John Wilkes, the claim of the House to forbid the publication of its debates led to a struggle between the Commons and the City of London which, although it resulted in the committal to prison of the Lord Mayor and two alder. men, practically put an end to the attempts of the House of Commons to prevent the publication of its debates."
Much to the same effect it is stated in May's Parliamentary Practice: at page 54, the learned author, under the heading " Right to control publication of Debates and Proceedings", observes:
The same idea is repeated at page 56 as follows:-
At page 118, the same result is described in different words thus:
Cockburn, C. J., in Wasan v. Walter(1) forcibly pointed out the irrelevance of the privilege claimed in the modern democratic set up. At page 89, the learned Chief Justice observed :
proceedings of Parliament should in general be made public, yet that debates in which the character of individuals is brought into question ought to be suppressed. But to this, in addition to the difficulty in which parties publishing parliamentary reports would be placed, if this distinction were to be enforced and every debate had to be critically scanned to see whether it contained defamatory matter, it may be further answered that there is perhaps no subject in which the public have a deeper interest than in all that relates to the conduct of public servants of the State,-no subject of parliamentary discussion which more requires to be made known than an inquiry relating to it". At page 95, dealing with the contention based upon the Standing Orders of both the Houses of Parliament prohibiting the publication of the proceedings, the learned Chief Justice proceeded to state as follows:
I have given the said passages in extenso as they give neatly and graphically not only the extent of the privilege in modern times, but the reasons for and the process by which the larger concept of the privilege has been gradually reduced to its present form. These are weighty observations and, if they were appropriate to the conditions obtaining in the 19th century, they would be more so in 1950, when the parliamentary system of government was perfected in England.
Jennings in his book on " The British Constitution states at page 82 thus:	Precedent
The 10th June, 1957.
It is claimed that generally speaking proceedings in the House are not in the ordinary course of business meant to be published at all and that under no circumstances is it permissible to publish the parts of speeches which had been directed to be expunged and consequently were not contained in the official report. Such Publication is said to be a clear breach of the privilege of the Legislative Assembly, which is entitled to protect itself by calling the offender to book and, if necessary, by meting out suitable punishment to him. This claim is sought to be founded on the pro- visions of cl. (3) of Art. 194 which confers on it all the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the House of Commons of the British Parliament at the commencement of our Constitution.
(2) (1784) 3 Tr. 428.
In the United States of America freedom of speech and liberty of the Press have been separately and specifically safeguarded in the Constitutions of most of the different States. Portions of the Constitutions of the 48 federating States, relevant for our purpose, have been collected in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 11, ch. 12, pp. 876-880. Fifteen States, only, namely, Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Wash- ington and Wyoming do not specifically refer to liberty of the Press but content themselves by providing for freedom of speech. The Constitutions of the rest of the federating States separately and 'Specifically mention liberty of the Press in addition to freedom of speech. The first Amendment of the federal Constitution of the United States, which was ratified in 1791, provides that " Congress shall make no law........... abridging the freedom of speech or of the Press ". The Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendments also protect people from being deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law.
Then came our Constitution on January 26, 1950. The relevant portions of Art. 19, as it now stands and which is relied on, are as follows:-
(2) [1950] S.C.R. 605.
Re I: Article 194, on which depends our decision not only on this point but also on the next one, may now be set out:-
(ii) those which are peculiar either to the House of Lords or to the House of Commons (2 ). The privileges of the Commons, as distinct from the Lords, have been defined as "
portion of speeches or proceedings directed to be expunged from the official record.
most readily granted and confirmed by the Crown (2). Of the three things thus claimed, two, namely, the freedom of the person and the freedom of speech and certain consequential rights like the right to exclude strangers from the House and the control or prohibition of publication of the debates and proceedings are common to both Houses (3). (1) Ridge's Constitutional Law, 8th Edn., p. 61; also Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, P. 351.
(2) Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution, Vol. 1, Ch. 4,p. 162.
(3) Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, p. 346.
As to (a): " The history of Parliamentary privilege is to a great extent a story of the fierce and prolonged struggle of the Commons to win the rights and freedoms which they enjoy to-day " (2). The right to control and, if necessary, to prohibit the publication of the debates and proceedings has been claimed, asserted and exercised by both Houses of Parliament from very old days. In 1628 and again in 1640 the clerk was forbidden to make notes of " particular men's speeches " or to " suffer copies to go forth of (1) Taswell-Langmead's Constitutional History, 10th Edn., p. 657.
Papers any Debates, or any other Proceedings of this House, or any Committee thereof" (1).
the fact of the House of Commons having directed Messrs. Hansard to publish all their parliamentary reports was no justification for their or for any other bookseller publishing a parliamentary report, containing a libel against any man. Subsequently the House retaliated by committing Stockdale and his attorney and - also the sheriff to prison. The deadlock thus brought about was at length removed by the passing of the Parliamentary Papers Act, 1840 (3 and 4 Vic. c. 9).
The fact that the House of Commons jealously guards this particular privilege is amply borne out by the fact that as late as May 31, 1875, when Lord Hartington sponsored a motion in the House of Commons " that this House will not entertain any complaint in respect of the publication of the debates or proceedings of the House, or of any committee thereof, except when such debates or any proceedings shall have been conducted within closed doors or when such publication shall have been expressly prohibited by the House or any committee or in case of wilful misrepre- sentation or other offence in relation to such publication "
(3) Ridge's Constitutional Law, 8th Edn., P. 70 and May's Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., P. 52.
of our Constitution the power or privilege of prohibiting the publication of even a true and faithful report of the debates or proceedings that take place within the House. A fortiori the House had at the relevant time the power or privilege of prohibiting the publication of an inaccurate or garbled version of such debates or proceedings. The latter part of Art. 194(3) confers all these powers, privileges and immunities on the House of the Legislature of the States, as Art. 105(3) does on the Houses of Parliament. It is said that the conditions that prevailed in the dark days of British history, which led to the Houses of Parliament to claim their powers, privileges and immunities, do not now prevail either in the United Kingdom or in our country and that there is, therefore, no reason why we should adopt them in these democratic days. Our Constitution clearly provides that until Parliament or the State Legislature, as the case may be, makes a law defining the powers, privileges and im- munities of the House, its members and Committees, they shall have all the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons as at the date of the commencement of our Constitution and yet to deny them those powers, privileges and immunities, after finding that the House of Commons had them at the relevant time, will be not to interpret the Constitution but to re-make it. Nor do we share the view that it will not be right to entrust our Houses with these powers, privileges and immunities,, for we are well persuaded that our Houses, like the House of Commons, will appreciate the benefit of publicity and will not exercise the powers, privileges and immunities except in gross cases. Re. II: Assuming that the petitioner, as a citizen and an editor of a newspaper, has under Art. 19(1)(a) the fundamental right to publish a true and faithful report of the debates or proceedings that take place in the Legislative Assembly of Bihar and granting that that Assembly under Art. 194(3) has all the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons which include, amongst others, the right to prohibit the publication of any report of the debates or proceedings, whose right is to prevail-? Learned advocate for the petitioner contends that the powers, privileges and immunities of the Legislative Assembly under Art. 194(3) must give way to the fundamental right of the petitioner under Art. 19(1)(a). In other words, Art. 194 (3), according to him, is subject to Art. 19 (1) (a). Learned advocate for the petitioner seeks to support his client's claim in a variety of ways which may now be noted, seriatim :-
(iv) that if, in pursuance of the provisions of Art. 105(3), Parliament makes a law under entry 74 in List I to the Seventh Schedule defining the powers, privileges and immunities of the House or Houses of Parliament and its members and committees or if, in pursuance of the provisions of Art. 194(3), the State Legislature makes a law under entry 39 in List II to the Seventh Schedule defining the powers, privileges and immunities of the House or Houses of the Legislature of a State and its members and committees and if, in either case, the powers, privileges and immunities so defined and conferred on the House or Houses are repugnant to the fundamental rights of the citizens, such law will, under Art. 13, to the extent of such repugnancy, be void and that such being the intention of the Constitution makers in the earlier part of Art. 194(3) and there being no apparent indication of a different intention in the latter part of the same clause, the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons conferred by the latter part of cl. (3) must also be taken as subject to the fundamental rights;
(2) A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.
be so subject indicates that the Constitution makers did not intend cls. (2) to (4) to be subject to the provisions of the Constitution. If the Constitution makers wanted that the provisions of all the clauses should be subject to the provisions of the Constitution, then the Article would have been drafted in a different way, namely, it would have started with the words: " Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and the rules and standing orders regulating the procedure of the Legislature " and then the subject matter of the four clauses would have been set out as sub- cls. (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) so as to indicate that the overriding provisions of the opening words qualified each of the subclauses. In the third place, in may well be argued that the words " regulating the procedure of the Legislature " occurring in cl. (1) of Art. 194 should be read as governing both " the provisions of the Constitution " and "
are parts of one organic whole. Article 13, therefore, cannot be read so as to render any portion of the Con- stitution invalid. This conclusion is also in accordance with the principle adopted in interpretation of statutes that they should be so construed as to give effect and operation to all portions thereof and that a construction which renders any portion of them inoperative should be avoided. For these reasons I must hold that the operation of Part 12 is not cut down by Part III and that the fundamental rights are within the powers of the taxation by the State."
(4) A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.
than in accordance with procedure established by law. The Legislative Assembly claims that under Art. 194(3) it has all the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the British House of Commons at the commencement of our Constitution. If it has those powers, privileges and immunities, then it can certainly enforce the same, as the House of Commons can do. Article 194(3) confers on the Legislative Assembly those powers, privileges and immunities and Art. 208 confers power on it to frame rules. The Bihar Legislative Assembly has framed rules in exercise of its powers under that Article. It follows, therefore, that Art. 194(3) read with the rules so framed has laid down the procedure for enforcing its powers, privileges and immunities. If, therefore, the Legislative Assembly has the powers, privileges and immunities of the I-louse of Commons and if the petitioner is eventually deprived of his personal liberty as a result of the proceedings before the Committee of Privileges, such deprivation will be in accordance with procedure established by law and the petitioner cannot complain of the breach, actual or threatened, of his fundamental right under Art. 21.
Finally, the petitioner denies that the expunged portions have been published. We do not think we should express any opinion on this controversy, at any rate, at this stage If the Legislature Assembly of Bihar has the powers and privileges it claims and is entitled to take proceedings for breach thereof, as we hold it is, then it must be left to the House itself to determine whether there has, in fact, been any breach of its privilege. Thus, it will be for the House on the advice of its Committee of Privileges to consider the true effect of the Speaker's directions that certain portions of the proceedings be expunged and whether the publication of the speech, if it has included the portion which had been so directed to be expunged in the eye of the law, tantamount to publishing something which had not been said and, whether such a publication cannot be claimed to be a publication of an accurate and faithful report of the speech. It will, again, be for the House to determine whether the Speaker's ruling made distinctly and audibly that a portion of the proceedings be expunged amounts to a direction to the Press reporters not to publish the same, and whether the publication of the speech, if it has included the portion directed to be so expunged, is or is not a violation of the order of the Speaker -and a breach of the privilege of the House amounting to a contempt of the Speaker and the House.
The powers, privileges, and immunities of a State Legislature are governed by Art. 194 of the Constitution and the freedom of propagation of ideas, their publication and circulation by Art. 19(1)(a) thereof. For convenience of reference, both these articles may be read in juxtaposition. Article 19 reads:
morality, or in relation to contempt of Court defamation or incitement to an offence. The said Article finds place in Part III under the heading " Fundamental Rights ". Article 13 makes laws that are inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights void and clause (2) thereof expressly prohibits the State from making laws in contravention of the said rights. In the words of Patanjali Sastri, C. J., the said rights in Part III are " rights reserved by the people after delegation of the rights by the people to the institutions of government ". It is true, and it cannot be denied, that notwithstanding the transcendental nature of the said rights, the Constitution may empower the Legislature to restrict the scope of the said rights within reasonable bounds, as in fact it did under cls. (2) to (6) of Art. 19. Such restrictions may be by express words or by necessary implication.But the Court would not and should not, having regard to the nature of the rights, readily infer such a restriction unless there are compelling reasons to do so. The Constitution adopted different and well- understood phraseology to resolve conflicts and prevent overlapping of various provisions. Some Articles are expressly made subject to the provisions of the Con- stitution-vide Arts. 71(3), 73(1), 105, 131, etc.-, and some to specified Articles-vide Arts. 81, 107(1), 107(2) 114(3), 120(1), etc. Some Articles are made effective notwithstanding other provisions in the Constitution -vide Arts. 120(1), 136(1), 143(2), 169(1), etc. Where the Constitution adopts one or other of the said two devices, its intention is clear and unambiguous; but, there are other Articles which are not expressly made subject to provisions of the Constitution or whose operation is not made effective notwithstanding any other provisions. In such cases, a duty is cast upon the Court to ascertain the intention of the Constituent Assembly. Cooley in his " Constitutional Law "
bility to any proceedings in a Court for persons in respect of the acts mentioned therein. But these two provisions do not touch the fundamental right of a citizen to publish proceedings which he is entitled to do under Art. 19(1) of the Constitution. That is dealt with by el. (3). That clause provides for powers, privileges and immunities of a House of the Legislature of a State and of the members and the committees of a House, other than those specified in cl. (2). it is not expressly made subject to the provisions of the Constitution. I find it difficult to read in that clause the opening words of el. (1), viz.,, " subject to the provisions of this Constitution ", for two reasons: (i) cl. (3) deals with a subject wider in scope than cl.(1) and therefore did not flow from cl. (1); and (ii) grammatically it is not possible to import the opening words of cl. (1) into cl. (3). Therefore, I shall proceed on the basis that cl. (3) is not expressly made subject to Art. 19 or expressly made independent of other Articles of the Constitution. We must, therefore, scrutinize the provisions of that clause in the context of the other provisions of the Constitution to ascertain whether by necessary implication it excludes the operation of Art. 19. The first thing to be noticed in cl. (3) of Art. 194 is that the Constitution declares that the powers, privileges and immunities of a House of Legislature of a State and of the members and com- mittees of a House of such Legislature are such as defined by the Legislature by law. In the second part, as a transitory measure, it directs that till they are so defined, they shall be those of the House of. Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom and of its members and committees, at the commencement of the Constitution. I find it impossible to accept the contention that the second part is not a transitory provision; for, the said argument is in the teeth of the express words used therein. It is inconceivable that the Constituent Assembly, having framed the Constitution covering various fields of activity in minute detail, should have thought fit to leave the privileges of the Legislatures in such a vague and nebulous position compelling the Legislatures to ascertain the con- tent of their privileges from those obtaining in the House of Commons at the commencement of the Constitution. The privilege of the House of Commons is an organic growth. Sometimes a particular rule persists in the record but falls into disuse in practice. Privileges, just like other branches of common law, are results of compromise depending upon the particular circumstances of a given situation. How difficult it is to ascertain the privilege of the House of Commons and its content and extent in a given case is illustrated by this case.
Reliance is placed upon other Articles of the Constitution in support of the contention that the second part of cl. (3) is not intended to be transitory in nature. Under Art. 135 of the Constitution, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, the Supreme Court shall have certain appellate jurisdiction. Under Art. 137, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under Art. 145, the Supreme Court shall have power to review any judgment pronounced or order made by it. Article 142(2) says:
Article 145 reads:"Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the Supreme Court may from time to time, with the approval of the President, make rules for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the Court............. Under Art. 146(2), "Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions of service of officers and servants of the Supreme Court shall be such as may be prescribed by rules made by the Chief Justice of India or by some other Judge or officer of the Court authorised by the Chief Justice of India to make rules for the purpose." Under Art. 187(3), " Until provision is made by the Legislature of the State under clause (2), the Governor may, after consultation with the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or the Chairman of the Legislative Council, as the case may be, make rules regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to the secretarial staff of the Assembly or the Council, and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any law made under the said clause ". Clause (2) of Art. 210 says " Unless the Legislature of the State by law otherwise provides, this article shall, after the expiration of a period of fifteen years from the commencement of this Constitution, have effect as if the words I or in English' were omitted therefrom." I do not see any analogy between the first part of Art. 194(3) and the provisions of the aforesaid Articles. Firstly, the said Articles do not import into India the law of a foreign country; secondly, they either make the existing law subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, or declare a particular law to be in force unless modified by Parliament; whereas in Art. 194(3) the Constitution expressly declares that the law in respect of powers, privileges and immunities is that made by a House of the Legislature from time to time and introduces a rider as a transitory measure that till such law is made, the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons should be those of the Legislature also. I have no doubt, therefore, that part two of cl..(3) of Art. 194 is intended to be a transitory provision and ordinarily, unless there is a clear intention to the contrary, it cannot be given a higher sanctity than that of the first part of cl. (3). The first part of el. (3) reads:
The respondents claimed two privileges: (i) that the House of Commons has the privilege of preventing the publication of its proceedings ; and (ii) that it has the privilege to prevent the publication of that part of the proceedings directed by the Speaker to be expunged. Indeed the second privilege is in fact comprehended by the first, which is larger in scope.	Section
The result of the foregoing discussion, therefore, is that the House of Commons had at the commencement (1) Taswell-Langmead, p. 660.
and this is so particularly when the House has the power to extend time " at any time ".
For reasons stated above we think that this petition should be dismissed. In the circumstances, there will be no order for costs.
SUBBA RAO, J.-I have had the advantage of perusing the well considered judgment of my. Lord the Chief Justice. It is my misfortune to differ from him and my learned brethren. I would not have ventured to do so but for my conviction that the reasoning adopted therein would unduly restrict and circumscribe the wide scope and content of one of the cherished fundamental rights, namely, the freedom of speech in its application to the Press.
Article 194 states:
make a research into the unwritten law of the privileges of the House of Commons at the risk of being called before the Bar of the Legislature.
After tracing the history of the privilege, the practice obtaining in modern times is described thus:
ORDER In view of the judgment of the majority, the petition is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs.	Conclusion
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 122 of 1958. Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of Fundamental rights.
1958, Oct. 16, 17, 28, 29, 30. Basdeva Prasad and Naunit Lal, for the petitioner :-The main question to be considered in the case is as to whose privilege has been involved and violated-those of the press or the House of the Legislature. Notice served on the petitioner by the Privileges Committee of the Bihar Assembly is illegal and invalid and the Constitution of the Privileges Committee is illegal as the Chief Minister of the State Dr. S. K. Sinha himself has been the Chairman of the Committee.
On May 30, 1957, there was a debate in the Bihar Legislative Assembly when M. P. N. Singh, one of the oldest members of the Assembly, made a speech the gist of which was a criticism of the administration of Bihar as run by Dr. S. K. Sinha, the Chief Minister, and cited certain instances of favouritism. At this stage the Speaker held that a portion of the speech was objectionable and ordered it to be struck off and expunged. It was a general statement. No specific direction was given to the Press. The opposite party was claiming the right to prohibit all publication of proceedings a right which the House of Commons possesses with its own history, but never exercises it. The speech was made on May 30, 1957, and the official authorised report was published and made available on January 2, 1958. 'The Search Light', being a daily newspaper, came out on May 31 with what happened in the Assembly. A privilege motion was said to have been moved and referred to the Committee of Privileges; no voting was taken and no time limit was given for the presentation of the report which was required under the rules of the House. If no time limit was prescribed then under rule 215 the report was to be submitted within a month.
It was after more than a year i.e. on August 18, 1958, that the petitioner received a notice to show cause why appropriate action should not be taken against him for the breach of privilege. This showed malice on the part of the Privileges Committee.
The action of the Privileges Committee raised constitutional points affecting the petitioners fundamental right of freedom of expression.
The Legislature cannot have such a privilege as will deprive the citizens of their fundamental rights which are guaranteed by the Constitution, specially the right of freedom of expression under Art. 19(1) (a). In the actual motion the charge was that the speech was published in its entirety, " Jyon ka Tyon " ; but the motion adopted by the Privileges Committee, the charge against the Editor was that he published a perverted and unfaithful report of the proceeding, and the expunged portions of the speech was also published in derogation of the order of the Speaker. [Wanchoo, J.-If the publication of expunged portions would make a report false, how could it be anything other than perverted and unfaithful?] [Daphtary:It was unfaithful as it was not a true report, as portions expunged had also been published]. The reference was not by the House but by the Speaker. It was open to the petitioner to challenge the procedure, as one of the grounds of his objection was that the motion was not put to vote. Important questions arose as a result of the proceedings, one of them being :-
On June 10, 1957, one Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha, a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, gave notice to the Secretary, Bihar Legislative Assembly (respondent 3) that he wanted to raise a question of the breach of privilege of the House. That notice was in the following terms "To The Secretary, Bihar Legislative Assembly, Patna.
The 10th June, 1957.
Sir, I give notice that I want to raise the following question involving a breach of privilege of the House, after question hour today.
An account of the proceedings that took place in the House on June 10, 1957, appears from " annexure D " in annexure III to the petition. It will appear from that account that after Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha had asked for leave to move his motion, the Speaker read out to the members the relevant rule as to the procedure that has to be followed when, on such leave being asked for, an objection is or is not taken. Thereafter, as no objection was raised in accordance with that rule, the Speaker declared that the mover had received the permission of the House to move his motion. One Shri Karpuri Thakur having remarked that he could express no view without knowing what had been printed and what had been directed not to be printed, the Speaker read out the text of the notice sent in by Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha set out above which referred to the issue of the Searchlight in question. As Shri Karpuri Thakur was apparently satisfied by this, the Speaker then requested Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move his resolution. The account shows that Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha then said "Sir, I beg to move: that the matter be referred to the Privilege Committee of the House". No amendment having been moved, the Speaker, according to the report of the proceedings set forth in " annexure D " ' put the question to the louse and, nobody objecting to the same, declared the resolution carried.
It appears that the Committee of Privileges (respondent 2) did not take up the consideration of the matter promptly and while the mattet was pending before the Committee sharp exchanges of charges and counter charges took place between the petitioner and the Chief Minister (respondent 1) as are evidenced by the extracts from the issues of the Searchlight of May 27, 28 and 31, 1958. There appears to have been a debate on June 5, 1958, for two hours in the Bihar Legislative Assembly on the alleged failure of the State Government to protect the petitioner from being assaulted by goondas. It is said that these exchanges roused the Committee of Privileges from slumber into activity on August 10, 1958, when it passed a resolution which, according to annexure II to the petition, ran as follows --
Searchlight " be called upon to show cause why appropriate action be not taken against them by reason of the commission of a breach of privilege in respect of the Speaker of the Bihar Legislative Assembly and the Assembly itself by publishing a perverted and unfaithful report of the proceedings of the Assembly relating to the speech of Shri Maheswar Prasad Narain Sinha, M.L.A., expunged portions of whose speech were also published in derogation to the orders of the Speaker passed in the House on the 30th May, 1957, and that they be further directed to be in attendance at the meeting or meetings of the Committee on such date or dates as may be fixed by the Committee for consideration of the case against them."
On August 18, 1958, the petitioner was served with a notice dated August 14,1958, issued by respondent 3, the Secretary to the Bihar Legislative Assembly, calling upon the petitioner to show cause, on or before September 8, 1958, why appropriate action should not be recommended against him for breach of privilege of the Speaker and the Assembly in respect of the offending publication. It is necessary, in view of one of the points taken by the learned advocate for the petitioner, to set out the full text of this notice which was thus worded:-
You are hereby directed to show cause, if any, on or before the 8th September, 1958, why appropriate action should not be recommended against you for breach of privilege of the Speaker and the Assembly. Please also take notice that the question will come up for examination by the Committee on the 8th September, 1958, at 11 am. in the Official Sitting Room (Ground Floor) of the Assembly Buildings, Patna, and thereafter on such day or days and at such time and place as the Committee may from time to time appoint. You are also informed that if the matter comes to evidence, you can, if you so choose, adduce evidence, both oral and documentary, relevant to the issue, and you must come prepared with the same on the date fixed in this behalf. Sd. Enayetur Rehman, Secretary to the Legislative Assembly."
Finding that things had begun to move and apprehending an adverse outcome of the enquiry to be held by the Committee of Privileges (respondent 2), the petitioner moved the High Court at Patna under Art. 226 for an appropriate writ;, order or direction restraining and prohibiting the respondents from proceeding further with the enquiry referred to above. It appears that on August 29, 1958, the Art. 226 petition came up for preliminary hearing and after it had been urged for a day and a half before the High Court for admission, the petitioner on September 1, 1958, withdrew that petition allegedly " with a view to avail the fundamental rights granted to him under Art. 32 of the Constitution."
The present petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution was filed on September 5, 1958. The petitioner contends that the said notice and the proposed action by the Committee of Privileges (respondent 2) are in violation of the petitioner's fundamental rights to freedom of speech and expression under Art. 19(1)(a) and to the protection of his personal liberty under Art. 21 and the petitioner claims by this petition to enforce those fundamental rights. An affidavit in opposition affirmed by Shri Enayatur Rahman, the present incumbent of the office of respondent 3, has been filed on behalf of the respondents wherein it is maintained that the report contained in the offending publication was not in accordance with the authorised report of the proceedings in the House in that it contained even those remarks which, having been, by order of the Speaker, directed to be expunged, did not form part of the proceedings.
It is claimed that generally speaking proceedings in the House are not in the ordinary course of business meant to be published at all and that under no circumstances is it permissible to publish the parts of speeches which had been directed to be expunged and consequently were not contained in the official report. Such Publication is said to be a clear breach of the privilege of the Legislative Assembly, which is entitled to protect itself by calling the offender to book and, if necessary, by meting out suitable punishment to him. This claim is sought to be founded on the pro- visions of cl. (3) of Art. 194 which confers on it all the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the House of Commons of the British Parliament at the commencement of our Constitution.
Learned advocate for the petitioner relies upon Art. 19(1)(A) and contends that the petitioner, as a citizen of India, has the right to freedom of speech and expression and that, as an editor of a newspaper, he is entitled to all the benefits of freedom of the Press. It is, therefore, necessary to examine the ambit and scope of liberty of the Press generally and under our Constitution in particular. In England freedom of speech and liberty of the Press have been secured after a very bitter struggle between the public and the Crown. A short but lucid account of that struggle will be found narrated in the Constitutional History of England by Sir Thomas Erskine May (Lord Farnborough), Vol. 11, ch. IX under the heading " Liberty of Opinion ". In the beginning the Church is said to have persecuted the freedom of thought in religion and then the State suppressed it in politics. Matters assumed importance when the art of printing came to be developed. The Press was subjected to a rigorous censorship. Nothing could be published without the imprimatur of the licenser and the publication of unlicensed works was visited with severe punishments. "Political discussion was silenced by the licenser, the Star Chamber, the dungeon, the pillory, mutilation and branding." Even in the reign of Queen Elizabeth printing was interdicted save in London, Oxford and Cambridge. " Nothing marked more deeply the tyrannical spirit of the first two Stuarts than their barbarous persecutions of authors, printers and the importers of prohibited books:
Halam in his Constitutional History of England expresses the same view by saying that liberty of the Press consists merely in exemption from the licenser. To the same effect are the observations of Lord Mansfield, C. J., in King v. Dean of St. Asaph (2). The liberty of the Press, therefore, primarily consists in (1) May's Constitutional History of England, Vol. ii PP. 240-41.
(2) (1784) 3 Tr. 428.
printing without any previous license subject to the consequences of law. It is, in substance, a mere application of the general principle of the rule of law, namely, that no man is punishable except for a distinct breach of the law (1). It was thus, as a result of a strenuous struggle, that the British people have at long last secured for themselves the greatest of their liberties- the liberty of opinion.
In the United States of America freedom of speech and liberty of the Press have been separately and specifically safeguarded in the Constitutions of most of the different States. Portions of the Constitutions of the 48 federating States, relevant for our purpose, have been collected in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 11, ch. 12, pp. 876-880. Fifteen States, only, namely, Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Wash- ington and Wyoming do not specifically refer to liberty of the Press but content themselves by providing for freedom of speech. The Constitutions of the rest of the federating States separately and 'Specifically mention liberty of the Press in addition to freedom of speech. The first Amendment of the federal Constitution of the United States, which was ratified in 1791, provides that " Congress shall make no law........... abridging the freedom of speech or of the Press ". The Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendments also protect people from being deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law.
Prior the advent of our present Constitution, there was no constitutional or statutory enunciation of the freedom of speech of the subjects or the liberty of the Press. Even in the famous Proclamation of Queen Victoria made in 1858 after the British power was firmly established in India, there was no reference to the freedom of speech or the liberty of the Press, although it was announced that " none be in any wise favoured, none molested or disquieted by reason of their Religious Faith or Observances; but that all shall alike enjoy the equal and impartial protection (1) Dicey's Law of the Constitution, 9th Edn., p. 247.
of the law;........... Indeed during the British period of our history the Press as such had no higher or 'better rights than the individual citizen. In Arnold v. King Emperor (1) which was a case of an appeal by the editor of a newspaper against his conviction for criminal libel under s. 499 of the Indian Penal Code, Lord Shaw of Dunfermline in delivering the judgment of the Privy Council made the following observations at p. 169:-
Then came our Constitution on January 26, 1950. The relevant portions of Art. 19, as it now stands and which is relied on, are as follows:-
........................................................ ........................................................ (2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence."
(1) (1914) L.R. 41 I.A. 149.
It will be noticed that this Article guarantees to all citizens freedom of speech and expression but does not specifically or separately provide for liberty of the Press. It has, however, been held that the liberty of the Press is implicit in the freedom of speech and expression which is conferred on a citizen. Thus, in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras (1) this Court has held that freedom of speech and expression includes the freedom of propagation of ideas and that freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation. In Brijbhushan v. The State of Delhi (2) it has been laid down by this Court that the imposition of pre-censorship on a journal is a restriction on the liberty of the Press which is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression declared by Art. 19(1)(a). To the like effect are the observations of Bhagwati, J., who, in delivering the unanimous judgment of this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Union of India(1) said at page 118 that freedom of speech and expression includes within its scope the freedom of the Press. Two things should be noticed. A non-citizen running a newspaper is not entitled to the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression and, therefore, cannot claim, as his fundamental right, the benefit of the liberty of the Press. Further, being only a right flowing from the freedom of speech and expression, the liberty of the Press in India stands on no higher footing than the freedom of speech and expression of a citizen and that no privilege attaches to the Press as such, that is to say, as distinct from the freedom of the citizen. In short, as regards citizens running a newspaper the position under our Constitution is the same as it was when the Judicial Committee decided the case of Arnold v. The King Emperor (4) and as regards non-citizens the position may even be worse. The petitioner claims that as a citizen and an editor of a newspaper he has the absolute right, subject, of course, to any law that may be protected by el. (2) of Art. 19, to publish a true and faithful report of the publicly heard and seen proceedings of Parliament or (1) [1950] S.C.R. 594.
(3) [1959] S.C.R. 12.
(2) [1950] S.C.R. 605.
(4) (1914) S.C.R. 41 I.A. 149.
any State Legislature including portions of speeches directed to be expunged along with a note that that portion had been directed to be so expunged. The respondents before us do not contend that the petitioner's freedom of speech and expression is confined only to the publication of his own sentiments, feelings, opinions, ideas and views but does not extend to the publication of news or of reports of proceedings or of views of others or that such last mentioned publications are not covered by the interpretation put upon the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a) by this Court in the three decisions referred to above or that the case of Srinivasa v. The State, of Madras (1), which apparently supports the petitioner, was wrongly decided. For the purposes of this case, therefore, we are relieved of the necessity for examining the larger questions and have to proceed on the footing that the freedom of speech and expression conferred on citizens includes the right to publish news and reports of proceedings in public meetings or in Parliament or State Legislatures. The respondents, however, deny that the petitioner has the absolute right broadly formulated as here in before mentioned. They urge, inter alia, that under Art. 194(3) Parliament and the State Legislatures have the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the House of Commons of British Parliament and those powers, privileges and immunities prevail over the freedom of speech and expression conferred on citizens under Art. 19(1)(a).
Besides a few minor miscellaneous points raised by the learned advocate for the petitioner, which will be dealt with in due course, two principal points arising on the pleadings have been canvassed before us and they are formulated thus:-
194(3) prevail over the fundamental right of the petitioner under Art. 19(1)(a) ?
Re I: Article 194, on which depends our decision not only on this point but also on the next one, may now be set out:-
Legislature of the State of Bihar has not made any law with respect to the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of the Legislature as enumerated in entry 39 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution just as Parliament has made no law with respect to the matters enumerated in entry 74 of List I of that Schedule. Therefore under the latter part of cl. (3) of Art. 194 the Legislative Assembly of Bihar has all the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the House of Commons at the commencement of our Constitution. What, then, were the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons which are relevant for the purposes of the present petition ?
Parliamentary privilege is defined as " the sum of the peculiar rights enjoyed by each House collectively as a constituent part of the High Court of Parliament, and by members of each House individually, without which they could not discharge their functions, and which exceed those possessed by other bodies or individuals " (1). According to the same author " privilege, though part of the law of the land, is to a certain extent an exemption from the ordinary law ". The privileges of Parliament are of two kinds, namely, (i) those which are common to both Houses and
(ii) those which are peculiar either to the House of Lords or to the House of Commons (2 ). The privileges of the Commons, as distinct from the Lords, have been defined as "
portion of speeches or proceedings directed to be expunged from the official record.
As pointed out in May's Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., p. 151, in the early days of British History the maintenance of its privileges was of vital importance to the House of Commons. They were necessary to preserve its independence of the King and the Lords and, indeed, to its very existence. The privileges of the House of Commons have been grouped under two heads, namely, (1) those demanded of the Crown by the Speaker of the House of Commons at the commencement of each Parliament and granted as a matter of course and (2) those not so demanded by the Speaker. Under the first heading come (a) freedom from arrest (claimed in 1554), (b) freedom of speech (claimed in 1541), (c) the right of access to the Crown (claimed in 1536) and (d) the right of having the most favourable construction placed upon its proceedings. The second head comprises (i) the right to the due composition of its own body, (ii) regulate its own proceedings, (iii) the right strangers, (iv) the right to prohibit publication of its debates and (v) the right to enforce observation of its privileges by fine, imprisonment and expulsion (1). Admonition and reprimand are milder forms of punishment. The privileges of the House of Commons under the first head are claimed at the commencement of every Parliament by the Speaker addressing the Lord Chancellor on behalf of the Commons. They are claimed as "
most readily granted and confirmed by the Crown (2). Of the three things thus claimed, two, namely, the freedom of the person and the freedom of speech and certain consequential rights like the right to exclude strangers from the House and the control or prohibition of publication of the debates and proceedings are common to both Houses (3). (1) Ridge's Constitutional Law, 8th Edn., p. 61; also Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, P. 351.
(2) Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution, Vol. 1, Ch. 4,p. 162.
(3) Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, p. 346.
For a deliberative body like the House of Lords or the House Commons, freedom of speech is of the utmost importance. A full and free debate is of the essence of Parliamentary democracy. Although freedom of speech was claimed and granted at the commencement of every Parliament, it was hardly any protection against the autocratic Kings, for the substance of the debates could be and was frequently reported to the King and his ministers which exposed the members to the royal wrath. Secrecy of Parliamentary debates was, therefore, considered necessary not only for the due discharge of the responsibilities of the members but also for their personal safety. " The original motive for secrecy of debate was the anxiety of the members to protect themselves against the action of the. sovereign, but it was soon found equally convenient as a veil to hide their proceedings from their constituencies " (1). This object could be achieved in two ways, namely, (a) by prohibiting the publication of any report of the debates and proceedings and (b) by excluding strangers from the House and holding debates within closed doors. These two powers or privileges have been adopted to ensure the secrecy of debates to give full play to the members' freedom of speech and therefore, really flow, as necessary corollaries, from that freedom of speech which is expressly claimed and granted at the commencement of every Parliament.
As to (a): " The history of Parliamentary privilege is to a great extent a story of the fierce and prolonged struggle of the Commons to win the rights and freedoms which they enjoy to-day " (2). The right to control and, if necessary, to prohibit the publication of the debates and proceedings has been claimed, asserted and exercised by both Houses of Parliament from very old days. In 1628 and again in 1640 the clerk was forbidden to make notes of " particular men's speeches " or to " suffer copies to go forth of (1) Taswell-Langmead's Constitutional History, 10th Edn., p. 657.
(2) Encyclopaedia of Parliament by Norman Widling and Laundy,p. 451.
any arguments or speech whatsoever The House of Commons of the Long Parliament in 1641 framed a standing order " that no member shall either give a copy or publish in print anything that he shall speak in the House " and " that all the members of the House are enjoined to deliver out no copy or notes of anything that is brought into the House, or that is propounded or agitated in this House ". In that critical period it was a necessary precaution. So strict was the House about this privilege that for printing a collection of his own speeches without such leave, Sir E. Derring was expelled from the House and imprisoned in the Tower and his book was ordered to be burnt by the common hangman. This standing order has not up to this date been abrogated or repealed. In 1680 to prevent inaccurate accounts of the business done, the Commons directed their " votes and proceedings, without any reference to the debates, to be printed under the direction of the Speaker. After the Revolution of 1688 frequent resolutions were passed by both Houses of Parliament from 1694 to 1698 to restrain newsletter writers from " intermeddling with their debates or other proceedings " or " giving any account of minute of the debates ". But such was the craving of the people for political news that notwithstanding these resolutions and the punishment of offenders imperfect reports went on being published in newspapers or journals. Amongst the papers were Boyer's " Political State of Great Britain ", " London Magazine ", and " Gentleman's Magazine " in which reports of debates were published under such titles as " Proceedings of a Political Club " and " Debates in the Senate of Magna Lilliputia ". In 1722 the House of Commons passed the following resolutions:
Papers any Debates, or any other Proceedings of this House, or any Committee thereof" (1).
In 1738 the publication of its proceedings was characterised in another resolution of the House of Commons as " a high indignity and a notorious breach of privilege The publication of debates in the " Middlesex Journal" brought down the wrath of the House of Commons on the printers who were ordered to attend the House. The printers not having been found warrants were issued for their arrest and one printer was arrested and brought before Alderman John Wilkes who immediately discharged him on the ground that no crime had been committed. Another printer was arrested and brought before another Alderman who, likewise, discharged the prisoner inasmuch as he was not accused of having committed any crime. By way of reprisal the House of Commons imprisoned the Lord Mayor and an Alderman, both of whom were the members of the House. Both men, on their release, were honoured in a triumphal procession from the Tower of London to the Mansion House. After this political controversy, debates in both Houses continued to be reported with impunity, although technically such reporting was a breach of privilege. Accurate reporting was, however, hampered by many difficulties, for the reporters had no accommodation in the House and were frequently obliged to wait for long periods in the halls or on the stairways and were not permitted to take notes. The result was that the reports published in the papers were full of mistakes and misrepresentations. After the House of Commons was destroyed by fire in 1834, galleries in temporary quarters were provided for the convenience of reporters, and in the new House of Commons a separate gallery was provided for the Press. In 1836 the Commons provided for the publication of parliamentary papers and reports, which led to the conflict between the House of Commons and the courts, which was decided in Stockdale v. Hansard (2), where Lord Chief Justice Denman held that (1) 20 journals of the House of Commons, p. 99; quoted in Frank Thayer's Legal Control of the Press, pp. 28-29. (2) Moody and Robson, 9. 174 Eng. Rep. 196; also see (1839) 9 A. & E. Reports, Eng. Q.B. 1; 112 Eng. Rep. 1112.
the fact of the House of Commons having directed Messrs. Hansard to publish all their parliamentary reports was no justification for their or for any other bookseller publishing a parliamentary report, containing a libel against any man. Subsequently the House retaliated by committing Stockdale and his attorney and - also the sheriff to prison. The deadlock thus brought about was at length removed by the passing of the Parliamentary Papers Act, 1840 (3 and 4 Vic. c. 9).
Learned advocate for the petitioner has drawn our attention to the judgment of Cockburn, C. J., in the celebrated case of Wason v. Walter (1). The plaintiff in that case had presented a petition to the House of Lords charging a high judicial officer with having, 30 years before, made a statement false to his own know. ledge, in order to deceive a committee of the House of Commons and praying enquiry and the removal of the officer if the charge was found true. A debate ensued on the presentation of the petition and the charge was utterly refuted. Allegations disparaging to the character of the plaintiff had been spoken in the course of the debate. A faithful report of the debate was published in the Times and the plaintiff proceeded against the defendant, who was a proprietor of the Times, for libel. It was held that the debate was a subject of great public concern on which a writer in a public newspaper had full right to comment, and the occasion was, therefore, so far privileged that the comments would not be actionable so long as a jury should think them honest and made in a fair spirit, and such as were justified by the circumstances as disclosed in an accurate report of the debate. Learned advocate for the petitioner contends that this decision establishes that the Press had the absolute privilege of publishing a report of the proceedings that take place in Parliament, just as it is entitled to publish a faithful and correct report of the proceedings of the courts of justice, though the character of individuals may incidentally suffer and that the publication of such accurate reports is privileged and entails neither criminal nor civil responsibility. This argument overlooks (1) (1868) L.R. IV Q.B. 73.
that the question raised and actually decided in that case, as formulated by Cockburn, C. J., himself at p. 82, was simply this:-
The issue was between the publisher and the person whose character had been attacked. The question of the privilege, as between the House and the newspaper, was not in issue at all. In the next place, the observations relied upon as bearing on the question of privilege of Parliament were not at all necessary for deciding that case and, as Frank Thayer points out at p. 32 of his Legal Control of the Press, ',this part of the opinion is purely dictum ". In the third place, the following observations of the learned Chief Justice clearly indicate that, as between the House and the Press, the privilege does exist:-
With the facilities now accorded to the reporters, the practice of reporting has improved, and the House, sensible of the advantage which it derives from a full and clear account of its debates, has even encouraged the publication of reports of debates and proceedings that take place in the House. From this it does not at all follow that the House has given up this valuable privilege. The following passage in Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution at p. 174 is significant and correctly states the position :-
Frank Thayer at pp. 31-32 expresses the same view in the following terms:-
May in his Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., p. 118 puts the matter thus:-
The fact that the House of Commons jealously guards this particular privilege is amply borne out by the fact that as late as May 31, 1875, when Lord Hartington sponsored a motion in the House of Commons " that this House will not entertain any complaint in respect of the publication of the debates or proceedings of the House, or of any committee thereof, except when such debates or any proceedings shall have been conducted within closed doors or when such publication shall have been expressly prohibited by the House or any committee or in case of wilful misrepre- sentation or other offence in relation to such publication "
Several instances are given in May's Parliamentary Practice at pp. 118-19 where proceedings have been taken for breach of privilege including a case of the publication in 1801 of a proceeding which the House of Lords had ordered to be expunged from the journal. It is said that that was a case of privilege of the House of Lords and not a case of privilege of the House of Commons and it is pointed out that there has been no instance of such a claim of privilege having been made by the House of Commons for over a century. In the first place, it should be remembered that this privilege, as stated in Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 24, p. 351, is a common privilege claimed by both Houses and, if the House of Lords could assert and exercise it in 1801, there is no reason to suppose that the House of Commons will not be able to do so if any occasion arises for its assertion or exercise. If the House of Commons has not done so for a long time it must rather be assumed that no occasion had arisen for the assertion and exercise of this power than that it had ceased to have the power at all (Cf. the observations in Wason v. Walter) (1) and In re: Banwarilal Roy (2)). Further the fact that the House of Commons in 1875 rejected Lord Hartington's motion referred to above also clearly indicates that the House of Commons is anxious to preserve this particular privilege. It is interesting also to note the new point that arose in the House of Commons regarding the publication of certain proceedings in August 1947. A Committee of Privileges found that one Mr. Evelyn Walkden, member for Doncaster, had revealed the proceedings of a private party meeting to a newspaper. The Committee thought that the practice of holding party meetings of a confidential character had become well- established and must be taken as a normal and everyday incident of parliamentary procedure. The Committee felt that attendance at such meetings within the precincts of the Palace of Westminster during the session was part of the member's normal duties and the publication by the handing out of a report of the proceedings amounted to a breach of the privilege of the House. It is true that the House only resolved that Mr. Walkden was guilty of dishonourable conduct, but did not expel him but it also passed a resolution that in future any person offering payment for the disclosure of such information would incur the House's grave displeasure (3). In this case the inquiry was with regard to the conduct of a member for having committed a breach of the privilege of the House by publishing the pro- ceedings to an outsider. The point, however, to note is that whatever doubts there might have been as to whether the proceedings of the private party meetings could be equated with the regular proceedings of (1) (1868) L.R. IV Q.B. 73.
(2) 48 C.W. N. 766, 787.
(3) Ridge's Constitutional Law, 8th Edn., P. 70 and May's Parliamentary Practice, 16th Edn., P. 52.
the House of Commons, there was, nevertheless, no question or doubt about the existence of the power or privilege of the House to forbid publication of the proceedings of the House. This case also shows that the House of Commons had not only not abandoned its power or privilege of prohibiting the publication of its proceedings proper but also considered the question of applying this power or privilege to the publication by a member of the proceedings that took place in a private party meeting held within the precincts of the House.
As to (b): It has already been said that the freedom of speech claimed by the House and granted by the Crown is, when necessary, ensured by the secrecy of the debate which in its turn is protected by prohibiting publication of the debates and proceedings as well as by excluding strangers from the House. Any member could in the old days " spy a stranger " and the Speaker had to clear the House of all strangers which would, of course, include the Press reporters. This right was exercised in 1849 and after 20 years in 1870 and again in 1872 and 1874. In 1875, however, this rule was modified by a resolution of the House only to this extent, namely, that, on a member spying a stranger, the Speaker would put the matter to the vote of the House (1). This right was exercised in 1923 and again as late as on November 18, 1958 (2). This also shows that there has been no diminution in the eagerness of the House of Commons to protect itself by securing the secrecy of debate by excluding strangers from the House when any occasion arises. The object of excluding strangers is to prevent the publication of the debates and proceedings in the House and, if the House is tenaciously clinging to this power or privilege of excluding strangers, it is not likely that it has abandoned its power or privilege to prohibit the publication of reports of debates or proceedings that take place within its precincts.
The result of the foregoing discussion, therefore, is that the House of Commons had at the commencement (1) Taswell-Langmead, p. 660.
(2) The Statesman dated November 20, 1958.
of our Constitution the power or privilege of prohibiting the publication of even a true and faithful report of the debates or proceedings that take place within the House. A fortiori the House had at the relevant time the power or privilege of prohibiting the publication of an inaccurate or garbled version of such debates or proceedings. The latter part of Art. 194(3) confers all these powers, privileges and immunities on the House of the Legislature of the States, as Art. 105(3) does on the Houses of Parliament. It is said that the conditions that prevailed in the dark days of British history, which led to the Houses of Parliament to claim their powers, privileges and immunities, do not now prevail either in the United Kingdom or in our country and that there is, therefore, no reason why we should adopt them in these democratic days. Our Constitution clearly provides that until Parliament or the State Legislature, as the case may be, makes a law defining the powers, privileges and im- munities of the House, its members and Committees, they shall have all the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons as at the date of the commencement of our Constitution and yet to deny them those powers, privileges and immunities, after finding that the House of Commons had them at the relevant time, will be not to interpret the Constitution but to re-make it. Nor do we share the view that it will not be right to entrust our Houses with these powers, privileges and immunities,, for we are well persuaded that our Houses, like the House of Commons, will appreciate the benefit of publicity and will not exercise the powers, privileges and immunities except in gross cases. Re. II: Assuming that the petitioner, as a citizen and an editor of a newspaper, has under Art. 19(1)(a) the fundamental right to publish a true and faithful report of the debates or proceedings that take place in the Legislative Assembly of Bihar and granting that that Assembly under Art. 194(3) has all the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons which include, amongst others, the right to prohibit the publication of any report of the debates or proceedings, whose right is to prevail-? Learned advocate for the petitioner contends that the powers, privileges and immunities of the Legislative Assembly under Art. 194(3) must give way to the fundamental right of the petitioner under Art. 19(1)(a). In other words, Art. 194 (3), according to him, is subject to Art. 19 (1) (a). Learned advocate for the petitioner seeks to support his client's claim in a variety of ways which may now be noted, seriatim :-
194(3) does not, in terms, purport to be an exception to Art. 19(1)(a) ;
(iii) that Art. 19, which enunciates a transcendental principle and confers on the citizens of India indefeasible and fundamental rights of a permanent nature,, is enshrined in Part III of our Constitution, which, in view of its subject matter, is more important, enduring and sacrosanct than the rest of the provisions of the Constitution, but that the second part of Art. 194(3) is of the nature of a transitory provision which, from its very nature, cannot override the fundamental rights;
(iv) that if, in pursuance of the provisions of Art. 105(3), Parliament makes a law under entry 74 in List I to the Seventh Schedule defining the powers, privileges and immunities of the House or Houses of Parliament and its members and committees or if, in pursuance of the provisions of Art. 194(3), the State Legislature makes a law under entry 39 in List II to the Seventh Schedule defining the powers, privileges and immunities of the House or Houses of the Legislature of a State and its members and committees and if, in either case, the powers, privileges and immunities so defined and conferred on the House or Houses are repugnant to the fundamental rights of the citizens, such law will, under Art. 13, to the extent of such repugnancy, be void and that such being the intention of the Constitution makers in the earlier part of Art. 194(3) and there being no apparent indication of a different intention in the latter part of the same clause, the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons conferred by the latter part of cl. (3) must also be taken as subject to the fundamental rights;
(v) that the observations in Anand Bihari Mishra v. Ram Sahay (1) and the decision of this Court in Gunupati Keshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan (2) clearly establish that Art. 194(3) is subject to the fundamental rights. The arguments, thus formulated, sound plausible and even attractive, but do not bear close scrutiny, as will be presently seen.
Article 194 has already been quoted in extenso. It is quite clear that the subject matter of each of its four clauses is different. Clause (1) confers on the members freedom of speech in the Legislature, subject, of course, to certain provisions therein referred to. Clause (2) gives immunity, to the members or any person authorised by the House to publish any report etc. from legal proceedings. Clause (3) confers certain powers. Privileges and immunities on the House of the Legislature of a State and on the members and the committees thereof and finally el. (4) extends the pro- visions of cls. (1) to (3) to persons who are not members of the House, but who, by virtue of the Constitution, have the right to speak and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of the House or any committee thereof. In the second place, the fact that cl. (1) has been expressly made subject to the provisions of the Constitution but cls. (2) to (4) have not been stated to (1) A.1.R. (1952) M.B. 31, 43.
(2) A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.
be so subject indicates that the Constitution makers did not intend cls. (2) to (4) to be subject to the provisions of the Constitution. If the Constitution makers wanted that the provisions of all the clauses should be subject to the provisions of the Constitution, then the Article would have been drafted in a different way, namely, it would have started with the words: " Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and the rules and standing orders regulating the procedure of the Legislature " and then the subject matter of the four clauses would have been set out as sub- cls. (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) so as to indicate that the overriding provisions of the opening words qualified each of the subclauses. In the third place, in may well be argued that the words " regulating the procedure of the Legislature " occurring in cl. (1) of Art. 194 should be read as governing both " the provisions of the Constitution " and "
extent of such repugnancy. it must not be overlooked that the provisions of Art. 105(3) and Art. 194(3) are constitutional laws and not ordinary laws made by Parliament or the State Legislatures and that, therefore, they are as supreme as the provisions of Part III. Further, quite conceivably our Constitution makers, not knowing what powers, privileges and immunities Parliament or the Legislature of a State may arrogate and claim for its Houses- members or committees, thought fit not to take any risk and accordingly made such laws subject to the provisions of Art. 13 ; but that knowing and being satisfied with the reasonableness of the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons at the commencement of the Constitution, they did not in their wisdom, think fit to make such powers, privileges and immunities subject to the fundamental right conferred by Art. 19(1)(a). We must, by applying the cardinal rules of construction ascertain the intention of the Constitution makers from the language used by them. In this connection the observations made in Anantha Krishnan v. State of Madras (1) by Venkatarama Aiyar, J., appear to us to be apposite and correct:-
are parts of one organic whole. Article 13, therefore, cannot be read so as to render any portion of the Con- stitution invalid. This conclusion is also in accordance with the principle adopted in interpretation of statutes that they should be so construed as to give effect and operation to all portions thereof and that a construction which renders any portion of them inoperative should be avoided. For these reasons I must hold that the operation of Part 12 is not cut down by Part III and that the fundamental rights are within the powers of the taxation by the State."
Article 19(1)(a) and Art. 194(3) have to be reconciled and the only way of reconciling the same is to read Art. 19(1)(a) as subject to the latter part of Art. 194(3), just as Art. 31 has been read as subject to Art. 265 in the cases of Ramjilal v. Income-tax Officer, Mohindargarh (1) and Laxmanappa Hanumantappa v. Union of India (2), where this Court has held that Art. 31(1) has to be read as referring to deprivation of property otherwise than by way of taxation. In the light of the foregoing discussion, the observations in the Madhya Bharat case (3) relied on by the petitioner, cannot, with respect, be supported as correct. Our decision in Gunupati Keshavram Reddy v. Nafisul Hasan (4), also relied on by learned advocate for the petitioner, proceeded entirely on a concession of counsel and -cannot be regarded as a considered opinion on the subject. In our judgment the principle of harmonious construction must be adopted and so construed, the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a), which are general, must yield to Art. 194(1) and the latter part of its el. (3) which are special.
Seeing that the present proceedings have been initiated on a petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution and as the petitioner may not be entitled, for reasons stated above, to avail himself of Art. 19(1)(a) to support this application, learned advocate for the petitioner falls back upon Art. 21 and contends that the proceedings before the Committee of Privileges threaten to deprive him of personal liberty otherwise (1) [1951] S.C R. 127.
(3) A.I.R. (1952) M.B. 31, 43, (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769.
(4) A.I.R. (1954) S.C. 636.
than in accordance with procedure established by law. The Legislative Assembly claims that under Art. 194(3) it has all the powers, privileges and immunities enjoyed by the British House of Commons at the commencement of our Constitution. If it has those powers, privileges and immunities, then it can certainly enforce the same, as the House of Commons can do. Article 194(3) confers on the Legislative Assembly those powers, privileges and immunities and Art. 208 confers power on it to frame rules. The Bihar Legislative Assembly has framed rules in exercise of its powers under that Article. It follows, therefore, that Art. 194(3) read with the rules so framed has laid down the procedure for enforcing its powers, privileges and immunities. If, therefore, the Legislative Assembly has the powers, privileges and immunities of the I-louse of Commons and if the petitioner is eventually deprived of his personal liberty as a result of the proceedings before the Committee of Privileges, such deprivation will be in accordance with procedure established by law and the petitioner cannot complain of the breach, actual or threatened, of his fundamental right under Art. 21.
We now proceed to consider the other points raised by learned counsel for the petitioner. He argues that assuming that the Legislative Assembly has the powers, privileges and immunities it claims and that they override the fundamental right of the petitioner, the Legislative Assembly, nevertheless, must exercise those privileges and immunities in accordance with the standing orders laying down the rules of procedure governing the conduct of its business made in exercise of powers under Art. 208. Rule 207 lays down the conditions as to the admissibility of a motion of privilege. According to cl. (ii) of this rule the motion must relate to a specific matter of recent occurrence. The speech was delivered on May 30,1957, and Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha M.L.A. sent his notice of motion on June 10, 1957, that is to say, 10 days after the speech had been delivered. The matter that occurred 10 days prior to the date of the submission of the notice of motion cannot be said to be a specific matter of recent occurrence. It is impossible for this Court to prescribe a particular period for moving a privilege motion so as to make the subject matter of the motion a specific matter of recent occurrence. This matter must obviously be left to the discretion of the Speaker of the House of Legislature to determine whether the subject matter of the motion is or is not a specific matter of recent occurrence. The copies of the proceedings marked as Annexure D in Annexure III to the petition do not disclose that any objection was taken by any member on the ground that the matter was not a specific matter of recent occurrence. We do not consider that there is any substance in this objection.
Reference is then made to rr. 208 and 209 which lay down the procedure as to what is to happen if any objection is taken to leave being granted to the mover to move his motion. It is said that Shri Ramcharitra Sinha M.L.A. had raised an objection to leave being granted to Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move the privilege motion. This allegation in the petition does not appear to be borne out by the account of proceedings in the House to which reference has been made. Shri Ramcharitra Sinha only wanted to know the convention relating to the question of admissibility of such a motion and the Speaker accordingly read out el. (ii) of r. 208. After that Shri Ramcharitra Sinha did not say anything further. The Speaker then said that he understood that there was no opposition in the matter and, therefore, the Hon'ble member was to be understood as having received the leave of the House and called upon him to say what be wanted to say. Thereupon, as stated earlier, Shri Karpuri Thakur wanted to know what had been published in the Searchlight of May 31, 1957, and what ought not to have been published. The Speaker thereupon read out the notice submitted by Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha which concisely referred to the subject matter of the motion and contained a reference to the issue of the Searchlight of May 31, 1957, a copy of which was filed along with the notice. After the notice had been read the Speaker permitted Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha to move his privilege motion, which the latter did. There was no amendment proposed and the Speaker then stated what the question before the House was, Nobody having indicated his opposition, he declared the motion to be carried. There was, in the circumstances, no non-compliance with the provisions of r. 208 read with r. 209.
The next argument founded on non-compliance with the rules is based on r. 215. Clause (i) of that rule provides that the Committee of Privileges should meet as soon as may be after the question has been referred to it and from time to time thereafter till a report is made within the time fixed by the House. In this case the House admittedly did not fix a time within which the report was to be made by the Committee of Privileges. This circumstance immediately attracts the proviso, according to which where the House does not fix any time for the presentation of the report, the report has to be presented within one month of the date on which the reference to the Committee was made. Learned advocate for the petitioner argues that one month's time had long gone past and, therefore, the Committee of Privileges became functus officio and cannot, under the rules, proceed with the reference. There is no substance in this contention, because the second proviso to cl. (i) of r. 215 clearly provides that the House may at any time on a motion being made direct that the time for the presentation of the report by the Committee be extended to a date specified in the motion. The words " at any time " occurring in the second proviso quite clearly indicate that this extension of time may be within the time fixed by the House or, on its failure to do so, within the time fixed by the first proviso or even thereafter, but before the report is actually made or presented to the House (Cf. Raja Har Narain Singh v. Chaudhrain Bhagwant Kuar) (1). Further, the question of time within which the Committee of Privileges is to make its report to the House is a matter of internal management of the affairs of the House and a matter between the House and its Committee and confers no right on the party whose conduct is the subject matter of investigation (1) (1891) L.R. 18 I.A. 55, 58.
and this is so particularly when the House has the power to extend time " at any time ".
The next argument is that the Committee cannot proceed to investigate what has not been referred to it. Reference is made to the resolution of the Committee (Annexure 11 to the petition) and the notice issued to the petitioner (Annexure I to the petition). It is said that while the Committee's resolution speaks of publishing " a perverted and unfaithful report of the proceedings of the Assembly relating to the speech of Maheshwar Prasad, Narayan Sinha M.L.A." including the expunged portion thereof, the notice simply refers to "
for breach of privilege of the Speaker and the Assembly ". We fail to perceive how the two documents can be read as re- ferring to two different charges. The notice served on the petitioner is couched in terms which cover the matters referred to in the Committee's resolution. The effect in law of the order of the Speaker to expunge a portion of the speech of a member may be as if that portion bad not been spoken. A report of the whole speech in such circumstances, though factually correct, may, in law, be rewarded as perverted and unfaithful report and the publication of such a perverted and unfaithful report of a speech, i.e., including the expunged portion in derogation to the orders of the Speaker passed in the House may, prima facie, be regarded as constituting a breach of the privilege of the House arising out of the publication of the offending news item and that is precisely the charge that is contemplated by the Committee's resolution and which the petitioner is by the notice called upon to answer. We prefer to express no opinion as to whether there has, in fact, been any breach of the privilege of the House, for of that the House alone is the judge;
The next argument urged by learned advocate for the petitioner is that, after the House had referred the matter to the committee of privileges, nothing was done for about one year, and after such a lapse of time the committee has suddenly woke up and resuscitated the matter only with a view to penalise the petitioner. In paragraph 17 of the petition the charge of mala fides is thus formulated:-
It will be noticed that the allegation of mala fides is against the Committee of Privileges and not against the Chief Minister and, therefore, to controvert this allegation an affidavit affirmed by the Secretary to the Bihar Legislative Assembly has been filed. In the affidavit in reply reference is made to certain issues of the Searchlight indicating that charges were being made by the paper against the Chief Minister and the suggestion is that it is at the instance of the Chief Minister that the Committee has now moved in the matter. This is a new allegation. That apart, the Chief Minister is but one of the fifteen members of the Committee and one of the three hundred and nineteen members of the House. The Committee of Privileges ordinarily includes members of all parties represented in the House and it is difficult to expect that the Committee, as a body, will be actuated by any mala fide intention against the petitioner. Further the business of the Committee is only to make a report to the House and the ultimate decision will be that of the House itself. In the circumstances, the allegation of bad faith cannot be readily accepted. It is also urged that the Chief Minister should not take part in the proceedings before the Committee because he has an interest in the matter and reference is made to the decision in Queen v. Meyer (1). The case of bias of the Chief Minister (respondent 2) has not been made anywhere in the petition and we do not think if would be right to permit the petitioner to raise this question, for it depends (1) L.R. (1876) 1 Q.B.D. 173.
on facts which were not mentioned in the petition but were put forward in a rejoinder to which the respondents had no opportunity to reply.
Finally, the petitioner denies that the expunged portions have been published. We do not think we should express any opinion on this controversy, at any rate, at this stage If the Legislature Assembly of Bihar has the powers and privileges it claims and is entitled to take proceedings for breach thereof, as we hold it is, then it must be left to the House itself to determine whether there has, in fact, been any breach of its privilege. Thus, it will be for the House on the advice of its Committee of Privileges to consider the true effect of the Speaker's directions that certain portions of the proceedings be expunged and whether the publication of the speech, if it has included the portion which had been so directed to be expunged in the eye of the law, tantamount to publishing something which had not been said and, whether such a publication cannot be claimed to be a publication of an accurate and faithful report of the speech. It will, again, be for the House to determine whether the Speaker's ruling made distinctly and audibly that a portion of the proceedings be expunged amounts to a direction to the Press reporters not to publish the same, and whether the publication of the speech, if it has included the portion directed to be so expunged, is or is not a violation of the order of the Speaker -and a breach of the privilege of the House amounting to a contempt of the Speaker and the House.
For reasons stated above we think that this petition should be dismissed. In the circumstances, there will be no order for costs.
SUBBA RAO, J.-I have had the advantage of perusing the well considered judgment of my. Lord the Chief Justice. It is my misfortune to differ from him and my learned brethren. I would not have ventured to do so but for my conviction that the reasoning adopted therein would unduly restrict and circumscribe the wide scope and content of one of the cherished fundamental rights, namely, the freedom of speech in its application to the Press.
This is an application under Article 32 of the Constitution for quashing the proceedings before the Committee of Privileges of the Bihar Legislative Assembly I and for restraining the respondents, i.e., the Chief Minister of Bihar and the said Committee of Privileges, from proceeding against the petitioner for the s publication in the issue of the " Searchlight " dated May 31, 1957, an account of the debate in the House (The Legislative Assembly, Bihar) on May 30, 1957, and for other incidental reliefs. The petitioner, Pandit M. S. M. Sharma, is the editor of the " Searchlight ", an English daily newspaper published from Patna in the State of Bihar. On May 30, 1957, Shri Maheswara Prasad Narayan Singh, a member of the State Assembly made a bitter attack in the Assembly on the Chief Minister, Shri Sri Krishna Sinha, and on Shri Mahesh Prasad Sinha, a minister in the previous cabinet, who was defeated at the last General Elections. It is said that in regard to that speech the Speaker gave a ruling that certain portions thereof should be expunged from the proceedings. In the issue of the " Searchlight" dated May 31, 1957, an accurate and faithful account of the, proceedings of the Bihar Legislative Assembly of May 30, 1957, was published under the caption "BITTEREST ATTACK ON CHIEF MINISTER ". It was also indicated in the report that the Speaker had disallowed the member to name Mr. Mahesh Prasad Sinha in respect of the Ministry formation and confined him to his remarks in regard to his chairmanship of the Khadi Board. It is alleged in the affidavit that till May 31, 1957, it was not known to any member of the staff of the " Searchlight ", including the petitioner, that any portion of the debate in question had been expunged from the official record of the Assembly proceedings of May 30, 1957, and that in fact the petitioner did not publish the expunged remarks. This fact was denied by the respondents in their counter, but it was not alleged that the Speaker made any specific order or gave any direction prohibiting the publication of any part of the proceedings of the Assembly in any newspaper. On June 10, 1957, Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha moved a privilege motion in the House and it was carried, as, presumably, :no one had opposed it. On the same day, the House referred the matter to the Committee of Privileges without fixing any date for the presentation of the report a of the Committee. The Committee in due course held its meeting presided over by the Chief Minister and found that a prima facie case of breach of privilege had been made out against the petitioner. Then, the Secretary to the Legislative Assembly issued a notice to the petitioner informing him of the fact that the Committee had found a prima facie case of breach of privilege made out against him and asking him to show cause, if any, on or before September 8, 1958, why appropriate action should not be taken against him. Along with that notice, a copy of the motion as adopted by the Committee of Privileges in its meeting held on August 10, 1958, and a copy of a booklet containing a collection of the papers relating to the privilege motion moved by Shri Nawal Kishore Sinha, M.L.A., on June 16, 1957, were enclosed for ready reference. The booklet accompanying the notice contained the motion moved in the House, the report published in the "Searchlight " dated May 31, 1957, and the rules of the Assembly relating to the Committee of Privileges. Though there was some argument on the construction of the terms of the resolution passed by the Committee on account of the unhappy language in which it was couched, it is manifest that the breach of privilege pleaded was that the petitioner, by including the expunged portion of the speech of Maheshwar Prasad Narayan Singh, published a perverted and unfaithful report of the proceedings of the Assembly. The petitioner, thereafter, filed a petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution for the aforesaid reliefs. On the aforesaid facts, the learned Counsel for the petitioner, raised the following points in support of the petition : (1) The petitioner, as a citizen of India, has the fundamental right under Art. 19 (1) of the Constitution to freedom of speech and expression, which includes the freedom of propagation of ideas and their publication and circulation; and the Legislature of a State cannot claim a privilege in such a way as to infringe that right. This contention is put in two ways: (i) The privilege conferred on the Legislature of a State is subject to the freedom conferred on a citizen under Art. 19 (1) of the Constitution ; and (ii) that even if the privilege was not expressly made subject to the fundamental right under Art. 19 (1), having regard to the nature of the fundamental right and the rules of interpretation, this Court should so construe the provisions as to give force to both the provisions. (2) Even if Art. 194 (3) overrides the provisions of Art. 19, the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Legislature are only those of the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, at the commencement of the Constitution, i.e., January 26, 1950; and the House of Commons on that date had no privilege to prevent the publication of its proceedings or portion expunged by the Speaker in respect of the proceedings. (3) Under Art. 21 of the Constitution, no person is to be deprived of his personal liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law and that the Privilege Committee, by calling upon the petitioner to appear at the Bar of the Legislature after making an enquiry in violation of the rules, particularly the rr. 207 (2), 208 (3) and 215 of the rules of the Assembly relating to the Committee of Privileges, has infringed his right under that Article. (4) Mr. Maheshwara Prasad Narayan Singh made a bitter attack on the Chief Minister and that report was published in the " Searchlight ". The Chief Minister, who has admittedly control over the Legislature or at any rate over the majority of the members of the Assembly, was actuated by mala fides in securing the initiation of the, proceedings against the petitioner for breach of privilege, and therefore his presiding over the meeting of the Sub- Committee would vitiate its entire proceedings. (5) The Committee of Privileges enquired into an allegation not referred to it by the House. The learned Solicitor General, appearing for the respondents, countered the said arguments and his contentions may be summarized thus: Under the Constitution, no particular Article has more sanctity than the other, even though that Article deals with fundamental rights. Article 194 (3) is not made subject to Art. 19 of the Constitution, and, therefore, if the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom has the power or privilege to prevent the publication of its proceedings, or at any rate of the expunged portions of it, the Legislature of a State in India, has also a similar privilege or power and it can exercise it, notwithstanding the fact that it infringes the fundamental right of a citizen. The House of Commons of the United Kingdom has such a privilege and therefore the Legislature of Bihar can exercise it and take action against the person committing a breach thereof. While a Court of Law can decide on the question of the existence and the extent of the privilege of a House, it has no power or jurisdiction to consider whether a particular person in fact committed a breach thereof. The Legislature in this case has not broken any of the rules of the Assembly relating to the Committee of Privileges, and even if it did, by reason of Art. 212 (1) of the Constitution, the validity of its proceedings cannot be questioned on the ground of any alleged irregularity of the procedure. There was no allegation in the petition that the Committee or the Assembly was actuated by mala fides and even if the Chief Minister was acting with mala fides-which fact was denied-, the proceedings of the Committee or of the Legislature, which is the final authority in the matter of deciding whether there was a breach of privilege, would not de vitiated. It was also denied that the Committee of Privileges enquired into any allegation not referred to it by the House.
At the outset it would be convenient to clear the ground of the subsidiary ramifications falling outside the field of controversy and focus on the point that directly arises in this case. We are not concerned here with the undoubted right of a State Legislature to control and regulate its domestic affairs. In " Cases in Constitutional Law " by Keir and Lawson, it is stated, at page 126, as follows:
Nor we are called upon to decide on the scope of a Court's jurisdiction to set aside the orders of contempt made by the Legislature or warrants issued to implement the said orders. Reported decisions seem to suggest that if the order committing a person for contempt or the warrant issued pursuant thereto discloses the reasons, the Court can decide whether there is a privilege and also its extent; but, when it purports to issue a bald order, the Court has no power to decide, on the basis of other evidence, whether in fact a breach of privilege is involved. As this question does not arise in this case, I need not express any opinion thereon. The stand taken by the Legislature, as disclosed in the notice issued, the enclosed records sent to the petitioner, in the counter-affidavit filed and the arguments advanced by the respondents, is that the Legislature of a State has the privilege to prevent any citizen from publishing the proceedings of the Legislature or at any rate such portions of it as are ordered to be expunged by the Speaker, and therefore it has a right to take action against the person committing a breach of such a privilege. The main question, therefore, that falls to be decided is whether the Legislature has such a privilege. If this question is answered against the Legislature, no other question arises for consideration.
The powers, privileges, and immunities of a State Legislature are governed by Art. 194 of the Constitution and the freedom of propagation of ideas, their publication and circulation by Art. 19(1)(a) thereof. For convenience of reference, both these articles may be read in juxtaposition. Article 19 reads:
Article 194 states:
In Romesh Thappar v. The State of Madras (1), this Court ruled that freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas and that freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation. This freedom is, therefore, comprehensive enough to take in the freedom of the press. The said view is accepted and followed in Brij Bhushan v. The State of Delhi (2). To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Union of India (3), where Bhagwati, J., delivering the judgment of the Court, held that freedom of speech and expression includes within its scope the -freedom of the Press. In Srinivasan v. The State of Madras (4) it was held, on the basis of the view expressed by this Court, that the terms " freedom of speech and expression " would include the liberty to propagate not only one's own views but also the right to print matters which are not one's own views but have either been borrowed from someone else or are printed under the direction of that person. I would, therefore, proceed to, consider the argument advanced on the basis that the freedom of speech in Art. 19(1)(a) takes in also the freedom of the Press in the comprehensive sense indicated by me supra. The importance of the freedom of speech in a democratic country cannot be over-emphasized, and in recognition thereof, cl. (2) of Art. 19 unlike other clauses of that Article, confines the scope of the restrictions on the said freedom within comparatively narrower limits. Clause (2) enables the State to impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the said right in the interest of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or (1) [1950] S.C.R. 594. (2) [1950] S.C.R. 605. (3) [1959] S.C.R. 12, 118. (4) A.I.R. (1951) Mad. 70.
morality, or in relation to contempt of Court defamation or incitement to an offence. The said Article finds place in Part III under the heading " Fundamental Rights ". Article 13 makes laws that are inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights void and clause (2) thereof expressly prohibits the State from making laws in contravention of the said rights. In the words of Patanjali Sastri, C. J., the said rights in Part III are " rights reserved by the people after delegation of the rights by the people to the institutions of government ". It is true, and it cannot be denied, that notwithstanding the transcendental nature of the said rights, the Constitution may empower the Legislature to restrict the scope of the said rights within reasonable bounds, as in fact it did under cls. (2) to (6) of Art. 19. Such restrictions may be by express words or by necessary implication.But the Court would not and should not, having regard to the nature of the rights, readily infer such a restriction unless there are compelling reasons to do so. The Constitution adopted different and well- understood phraseology to resolve conflicts and prevent overlapping of various provisions. Some Articles are expressly made subject to the provisions of the Con- stitution-vide Arts. 71(3), 73(1), 105, 131, etc.-, and some to specified Articles-vide Arts. 81, 107(1), 107(2) 114(3), 120(1), etc. Some Articles are made effective notwithstanding other provisions in the Constitution -vide Arts. 120(1), 136(1), 143(2), 169(1), etc. Where the Constitution adopts one or other of the said two devices, its intention is clear and unambiguous; but, there are other Articles which are not expressly made subject to provisions of the Constitution or whose operation is not made effective notwithstanding any other provisions. In such cases, a duty is cast upon the Court to ascertain the intention of the Constituent Assembly. Cooley in his " Constitutional Law "
bility to any proceedings in a Court for persons in respect of the acts mentioned therein. But these two provisions do not touch the fundamental right of a citizen to publish proceedings which he is entitled to do under Art. 19(1) of the Constitution. That is dealt with by el. (3). That clause provides for powers, privileges and immunities of a House of the Legislature of a State and of the members and the committees of a House, other than those specified in cl. (2). it is not expressly made subject to the provisions of the Constitution. I find it difficult to read in that clause the opening words of el. (1), viz.,, " subject to the provisions of this Constitution ", for two reasons: (i) cl. (3) deals with a subject wider in scope than cl.(1) and therefore did not flow from cl. (1); and (ii) grammatically it is not possible to import the opening words of cl. (1) into cl. (3). Therefore, I shall proceed on the basis that cl. (3) is not expressly made subject to Art. 19 or expressly made independent of other Articles of the Constitution. We must, therefore, scrutinize the provisions of that clause in the context of the other provisions of the Constitution to ascertain whether by necessary implication it excludes the operation of Art. 19. The first thing to be noticed in cl. (3) of Art. 194 is that the Constitution declares that the powers, privileges and immunities of a House of Legislature of a State and of the members and com- mittees of a House of such Legislature are such as defined by the Legislature by law. In the second part, as a transitory measure, it directs that till they are so defined, they shall be those of the House of. Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom and of its members and committees, at the commencement of the Constitution. I find it impossible to accept the contention that the second part is not a transitory provision; for, the said argument is in the teeth of the express words used therein. It is inconceivable that the Constituent Assembly, having framed the Constitution covering various fields of activity in minute detail, should have thought fit to leave the privileges of the Legislatures in such a vague and nebulous position compelling the Legislatures to ascertain the con- tent of their privileges from those obtaining in the House of Commons at the commencement of the Constitution. The privilege of the House of Commons is an organic growth. Sometimes a particular rule persists in the record but falls into disuse in practice. Privileges, just like other branches of common law, are results of compromise depending upon the particular circumstances of a given situation. How difficult it is to ascertain the privilege of the House of Commons and its content and extent in a given case is illustrated by this case.
Reliance is placed upon other Articles of the Constitution in support of the contention that the second part of cl. (3) is not intended to be transitory in nature. Under Art. 135 of the Constitution, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, the Supreme Court shall have certain appellate jurisdiction. Under Art. 137, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under Art. 145, the Supreme Court shall have power to review any judgment pronounced or order made by it. Article 142(2) says:
Article 145 reads:"Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the Supreme Court may from time to time, with the approval of the President, make rules for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the Court............. Under Art. 146(2), "Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions of service of officers and servants of the Supreme Court shall be such as may be prescribed by rules made by the Chief Justice of India or by some other Judge or officer of the Court authorised by the Chief Justice of India to make rules for the purpose." Under Art. 187(3), " Until provision is made by the Legislature of the State under clause (2), the Governor may, after consultation with the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or the Chairman of the Legislative Council, as the case may be, make rules regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to the secretarial staff of the Assembly or the Council, and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any law made under the said clause ". Clause (2) of Art. 210 says " Unless the Legislature of the State by law otherwise provides, this article shall, after the expiration of a period of fifteen years from the commencement of this Constitution, have effect as if the words I or in English' were omitted therefrom." I do not see any analogy between the first part of Art. 194(3) and the provisions of the aforesaid Articles. Firstly, the said Articles do not import into India the law of a foreign country; secondly, they either make the existing law subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, or declare a particular law to be in force unless modified by Parliament; whereas in Art. 194(3) the Constitution expressly declares that the law in respect of powers, privileges and immunities is that made by a House of the Legislature from time to time and introduces a rider as a transitory measure that till such law is made, the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons should be those of the Legislature also. I have no doubt, therefore, that part two of cl..(3) of Art. 194 is intended to be a transitory provision and ordinarily, unless there is a clear intention to the contrary, it cannot be given a higher sanctity than that of the first part of cl. (3). The first part of el. (3) reads:
make a research into the unwritten law of the privileges of the House of Commons at the risk of being called before the Bar of the Legislature.
The said conclusion would be sufficient to dispose of this petition. But as it was argued at some length, it would be as well that I expressed my opinion on the question of the existence and the extent -of the relevant privileges of the House of Commons at the commencement of the Constitution. Before considering that question, it would be convenient to notice briefly the scope of a Court's jurisdiction to investigate the nature and the extent of the privilege claimed by the House of Commons. It is often said that each House of Parliament is the sole judge of its own privileges. But early in the history of British Parliament the question of the scope of that equivocal statement was raised and it was contended that the House's jurisdiction was confined only within the limits of the privileges as defined by the Courts of Common Law. The said question was raised and decided in Ashby v. White (1), Paty's Case (2), Stockdale v. Hansard (3) and in the Case of the Sheriff of Middlesex(1). In the said cases, the Common Law rights of a citizen were threatened by the House of Commons on the ground that the person concerned committed a breach of the privilege of the House. The combined effect of these decisions is that " the Courts deny to the Houses the right to determine the limits of their privileges, while allowing them within those limits exclusive jurisdiction " In Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution, the principle has been neatly stated, at page 190, thus:-
claimed by the respondents. As the privilege claimed by the respondents is in derogation of the fundamental right of a citizen, the burden lies heavily upon them to establish by clear and unequivocal evidence that the House of Commons possessed such a privilege. In the words of Coke " as the privilege is part of the law of custom of the Parliament, they must be collected out of the rolls of Parliament and other records and by precedent and continued experience ". They can be found only in the Journals of the House compiled in the Journal Office from the manuscript minutes and notes of proceedings made by the clerks at the table during the sittings of the House. Decided cases and the text-books would also help us to ascertain the privileges of the Houses. The words " at the commencement of the Constitution " indicate that the privileges intended to be attracted are not of the dark and difficult days, when the House of Commons passed through strife and struggle, but only those obtaining in 1950, when it was functioning as a model Legislature in a highly democratized country. In the circumstance, a duty is cast upon the respondents to establish with exactitude that the House of Commons possessed the particular privilege claimed at the com- mencement of the Constitution.
The respondents claimed two privileges: (i) that the House of Commons has the privilege of preventing the publication of its proceedings ; and (ii) that it has the privilege to prevent the publication of that part of the proceedings directed by the Speaker to be expunged. Indeed the second privilege is in fact comprehended by the first, which is larger in scope.
A history of the said privilege is given in May's Parliamentary Practice as well as in Halsbury's Laws of England. In Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edition, Volume 24 (Lord Hailsham's Edition), it is stated at pages 350-351 as follows:
206, 207. But, in spite of the attitude of the House, unofficial reports of the proceedings of the House of Commons were still published, and in 1771, during the disturbances caused by John Wilkes, the claim of the House to forbid the publication of its debates led to a struggle between the Commons and the City of London which, although it resulted in the committal to prison of the Lord Mayor and two alder. men, practically put an end to the attempts of the House of Commons to prevent the publication of its debates."
Much to the same effect it is stated in May's Parliamentary Practice: at page 54, the learned author, under the heading " Right to control publication of Debates and Proceedings", observes:
After tracing the history of the privilege, the practice obtaining in modern times is described thus:
The same idea is repeated at page 56 as follows:-
At page 118, the same result is described in different words thus:
Then the following eight instance of misconduct, in connection with the, publication of the debates which is generally treated as a breach of privilege of the House are given by the learned author :
It would be seen from the instances that mala fides is a necessary ingredient of the publication to attract the doctrine of privilege and that the instances given are of the period between 1756 to 1893. One of the instances on which strong emphasis is laid by the learned Solicitor General is the-publishing of a proceeding which the House of Lords bad ordered to be expunged from the Journals. Apart from the fact that the instance in question relates to the House of Lords, the Journal is not available for us to ascertain under what circumstances the publication was made Further the instance was of the year 1801 and no other instances of that kind appear to have occurred from 1801 to 1950. In the circumstances, on the authority of May, it may be accepted that the House of Lords asserted the privilege in 1801 when its proceedings were published mala fide, though they were expressly ordered to be expunged.
Cockburn, C. J., in Wasan v. Walter(1) forcibly pointed out the irrelevance of the privilege claimed in the modern democratic set up. At page 89, the learned Chief Justice observed :
proceedings of Parliament should in general be made public, yet that debates in which the character of individuals is brought into question ought to be suppressed. But to this, in addition to the difficulty in which parties publishing parliamentary reports would be placed, if this distinction were to be enforced and every debate had to be critically scanned to see whether it contained defamatory matter, it may be further answered that there is perhaps no subject in which the public have a deeper interest than in all that relates to the conduct of public servants of the State,-no subject of parliamentary discussion which more requires to be made known than an inquiry relating to it". At page 95, dealing with the contention based upon the Standing Orders of both the Houses of Parliament prohibiting the publication of the proceedings, the learned Chief Justice proceeded to state as follows:
I have given the said passages in extenso as they give neatly and graphically not only the extent of the privilege in modern times, but the reasons for and the process by which the larger concept of the privilege has been gradually reduced to its present form. These are weighty observations and, if they were appropriate to the conditions obtaining in the 19th century, they would be more so in 1950, when the parliamentary system of government was perfected in England.
Jennings in his book on " The British Constitution states at page 82 thus:
This passage succinctly gives the principles underlying the doctrine that in a democratic country, debates in Parliament are public and there should not be any prohibition against the publication of the said debates.
The extent of the privilege of the House of Commons in regard to the publication of its proceedings may be stated thus: In the seventeenth century, the House of Commons made standing orders prohibiting the publication of its proceedings. But that was a necessary precaution in that critical period when the representatives of the people were in conflict with the crown and they were careful that their proceedings should not reach the ear of the Crown. In the aristocratic eighteenth century, the opposition to publication was founded not only on the fear of misrepresentation, but on impatience of the pressure of public opinion. But gradually and imperceptibly, as a result of conflicts and compromises and as Parliamentary form of government became perfect and broad based, not only publication was allowed but actually encouraged by the House of Commons. In the year 1950, it would be unthinkable and indeed would have been an extraordinary phenomenon for the House Of Commons claiming the privilege of preventing the publication of its proceedings. The said orders, though not expressly repealed or modified, were no longer enforced in accordance with their tenor; but were in effect modified by practice and precedents. The stringent part of the orders had fallen into disuse and in practice it was restricted to mala fide publication of the proceedings. 1, therefore, hold that in the year 1950, the House of Commons had no privilege to prevent the publication of the correct add faithful reports of its proceedings save those in the case of secret sessions held under exceptional circumstances and had only a limited privilege to prevent mala fide publication of garbled, un- faithful or expunged reports of the proceedings. It follows from my view, namely, that the petitioner's fundamental right under Art. 19(1) is preserved despite the provisions of Art. 194(3) of the Constitution, that the petitioner is entitled to succeed. I am further of the opinion that even if Art. 194(3) of the Constitution excludes the operation of Art. 19(1), the petitioner in the circumstances of the present case would not be in a worse position. That apart, the charge as disclosed either in the notice served on the petitioner or in the enclosures annexed thereto does not impute any mala fide intention to the petitioner. The notice only says that the Committee of Privileges, on the basis of the publication of the news item in the " Searchlight ", found that a prima facie case of breach of privilege has been made out against the petitioner. The resolution enclosed therein indicates that the petitioner committed a breach of privilege by printing the expunged portion of the speech of Maheshwara Prasad Narayan Singh and thereby published a perverted and unfaithful report of the proceedings. Other documents enclosed with the notice contained a motion moved in the House by another member charging the petitioner for publishing the expunged portion of the speech. The petitioner in his petition states that till May 31, it was not known to any member of the staff of the " Searchlight ", including the petitioner, that any portion of s the debate in question had been expunged from the official record of the Assembly. Though in the official record of the proceedings, portions of the speech reported have been expunged, no order of the Speaker expunging any portions of the speech made on May 30, has been produced. Admittedly there was no order of the Speaker prohibiting the publication of the expunged portion of the speech. In the counter-affidavit filed by the respondents, they did not allege any mala fides to the petitioner but they took their stand on the fact that the Legislature had the privilege of preventing the petitioner from publishing the expunged por- tion of the speech. In the circumstances, neither the notice nor the documents enclosed with the notice disclose that the petitioner published the speech, including the expunged portion mala fide, or even with the knowledge that any portion of the speech was directed to be expunged. As I have pointed out, the Legislature has the privilege of preventing only mala fide publication of the proceedings of the Legislature and, as in this case the petitioner is not alleged to have done so, the Legislature has no power to take any action in respect of the said publication. In the result, the petition is allowed. A Writ of Prohibition will issue restraining the respondents from proceeding against the petitioner for the alleged breach of privilege by publishing in the issue of the " Searchlight ", dated May 31, 1957, an account of the debate of the House (Legislative Assembly, Bihar) of May 30, 1957.
ORDER In view of the judgment of the majority, the petition is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs.	Total Judgement
