Seth Jamnadas Daga And Others vs Commissioner Of Income-Tax, South ... on 12 December, 1960	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 516 of 1959. Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 3, 1957, of the Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 49 of 1957.
J.M. Thakar, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellants. A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta, for the respondent. 1960. December 12. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by HIDAYATULLAH, J.-The three appellants appeal against the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay answering, in the affirmative, the following question:
The facts are as follows: Two of the appellants are brothers, and the third appellant is the widow of a third brother, who died during the pendency of the appeal after certificate had been granted by the High Court. The three brothers were partners in two registered firms and one other firm, which was unregistered. The assessment years for the purposes of the appeal are 1948-49 and 1949-50. For the assessment year 1948-49, the income of the three brothers was the same, and it was as follows:
Court on the first part of the case, it is not necessary to examine closely or in detail the reasons on which the decision of the High Court proceeds. In our opinion, the matter is simple, and can be stated within a narrow compass. Under s. 3 of the Income-tax Act, income-tax is chargeable for an assessment year at rate or rates prescribed by an annual Act in respect of the total income of the previous year. Section 14 (2)(a), before its amendment in 1956, provided that the tax shall not be payable by an assessee, if a partner of an unregistered firm in respect of any portion of his share in the profits and gains of the firm, computed in the manner laid down in cl. (b) of sub-s. (1) of s. 16 on which the tax had already been paid by the firm. The section thus gave immunity from tax to the share of the assessee as a partner in an unregistered firm in respect of the share of profits received by him from the unregistered firm and on which the unregistered firm had already been taxed. Section 16(1)(a), however, provided that in computing the total income of an assessee, any sum exempted under sub-s. (2) of s. 14 shall be included. The combined effect of those two sections was stated by the High Court to be, "that although the share of a partner in the profits of an unregistered firm is exempt from tax, it is included in his total income for the purpose of rate only. "
The Tribunal came to the conclusion that, "...just as a partner in an unregistered firm which has suffered loss will not be allowed to set off his share loss in the unregistered firm against his income from any other source, so it stands to reason that his loss from other sources cannot also be set off against his share income from an unregistered firm. "	Total Judgement
