Bijay Cotton Mills Ltd vs The State Of Ajmer on 14 October, 1954	Case Title
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 188 and 189 of 1954.
Under article 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
H. M. Seervai, J. B. Dadgchanji and Rajinder Narain for petitioners.
C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India (M.M. Kaul and P. G. Gokhale, with him) for respondent. 1954. October 14. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUKHERJEA J.-We now take up the two connected petitions under article 32 of the Constitution. In one of these petitions, to wit Petition No. 188, Shri Bijay Cotton Mills Ltd. (hereinafter called 'the company'), the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 139 of 1954, figures as the petitioner, while the other petition, to wit, Petition No. 189, has been filed by a number of employee working under it. To appreciate the contentions of Mr. Seervai, who appears in support of both these petitions, it will be necessary to narrate a few antecedent facts :
Act but this must be due entirely to the economic conditions of these particular employers. That cannot be a reason for the striking' down the law itself as unreasonable. As regards the procedure for the fixing of minimum wages, the "appropriate Government" has undoubtedly been given very large powers. But it has to take into consideration, before fixing wages, the advice of the committee if one is appointed, or the representations on his proposals made by persons who are likely to be affected thereby. Consultation with advisory bodies has been made obligatory on all occasions of revision of minimum wages, and section 8 of the Act provides for the appointment of a Central Advisory Board for the purpose of advising the Central as well as the State Government both in the matter of fixing and revision of minimum wages. Such Central Advisory body is to act also as a coordinating agent for coordinating the work of the different advisory bodies. In the committees or the advisory bodies the employers and the employees have an equal number of representatives and there are certain independent members besides them who are expected to take a fair and impartial view of the matter. These provisions in our opinion, constitute an adequate safeguard against any hasty or capricious decision by the "appropriate Government." In suitable cases the "appropriate Government" has also been given the power of granting exemptions from the operation of the provisions of this Act. There is no provision undoubtedly for a further review of the decision of the "appropriate Government", but we do not think that by itself would make the provisions of the Act unreasonable. In our opinion, the restrictions, though they interfere to some extent with the freedom of trade or business guaranteed under article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution, are reasonable and being imposed in the interest of the general public are protected by the terms of clause (6) of article 19. The result is that the petitions are dismissed. We make no order as to costs.
Petitions dismissed.	Total Judgement
