Maharaj Kumar Kamal Singh vs The Commissioner Of Income-Tax, Bihar & ... on 1 October, 1958	Case Title
CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 297 of 1955. Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 7, 1954, of the Patna High Court in Misc. Judicial Case No. 327 of 1951.
A. V. Viswanatha Sastri and B. K. Sinha, for the appellant.
K. N. Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.
Meanwhile the assessee died and the appellant succeeded to the estate of his deceased father. He then filed an application under s. 66(1) of the Act requiring the tribunal to refer the question of law raised in the case to the Patna High Court for its opinion. The tribunal rejected this application on February 27, 1951. Thereupon the appellant moved the Patna High Court under s. 66(2) of the Act; his application was allowed and the tribunal was directed by the High Court on December 15, 1951, to state the case and refer the question of law for its opinion. In compliance with the requisition of the High Court the tribunal by its order passed on July 23, 1952, submitted a statement of the case and referred to the High Court for its opinion the question of law raised by the appellant. The question thus raised is: " Whether in the circumstances of the case the assessment order under s. 34 of the Act of the interest on arrears of rent is legal ?" On April 7, 1954, this reference was heard by V. Ramaswamy and C. P. Sinha JJ. of the Patna High Court and the question was answered by them in favour of the department. The appellant then applied for and obtained a certificate from the Patna High Court on September 13, 1954. The High Court has certified under s. 66A, sub-s. (2), of the Act that the case raises a question of law of a substantial kind and is otherwise a fit case for appeal to this court. That is how the present appeal has come before us; and the question which it raises for our decision is about the true construction of s. 34(1)(b) of the Act.	Issue
total amount of income liable to tax was determined after deducting the whole of the amount of Rs. 93,604 from it. Some other minor reductions were also allowed in compliance with the appellate order. The department did not challenge either the appellate order or the subsequent order passed by the Income-tax Officer in pursuance of the said appellate order.	Facts
Mr. Sastri, however, argues that the narrow construction of the expression "has escaped assessment " for which he contends has been approved by the Privy Council in Rajendranath Mukherjee v. Income-tax Commissioner (1). He relies more particularly on the observation made in the judgment in this case that "the fact that s. 34 requires a notice to be served calling for a return of income which has escaped assessment ,strongly suggests that income which has already been duly returned for assessment cannot be said to have escaped 'assessment within the statutory meaning". In order to appreciate the effect of this observation it would be necessary to examine the material facts in the case and the specific points raised for the decision of the Privy Council. It appears that, in 1930 the Income-tax Officer had made an assessment order on Burn & Co., which was an unregistered firm, assessing them' to income-tax and super- tax for the year 192728 under the Act. The individual partners of Burn & Co., who were the appellants before the Board, contended that it was not competent to the officer to make the impugned assessment on the firm after the expiry on March 31, 1928, of the year in respect of which the assessment was made. The Commissioner of Income-tax met this plea by referring to the other relevant facts which explained the delay in making the assessment order. Towards the end of 1926-27, the partners of the registered firm of Martin & Co., had purchased the business and assets of Burn & Co. This transaction was effected not on behalf of the firm (1) (1933) 61 I.A. IO, 16.	PetArg
Pursuant to this appellate order the Income-tax Officer made a fresh assessment under ss. 23(3) and 31 of the Act on August 20, 1946. By this order the (1) [1946) 14 I.T.R. 673.
Section 34 of the Act has been amended in 1939 and in 1948. It is conceded by Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, for the appellant, that the present case is governed by the section as it was amended in 1948. This amended s. 34, sub-s. (1), deals with cases of income escaping assessment in two clauses. Clause
(a)- covers cases where income has escaped assessment by reason of the omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income under s. 22. We are not concerned with this clause. Clause (b) of s. 34(1) provides inter alia that " notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in cl. (a) on the part of the assessee, if the Income-tax Officer has, in consequence of information in his possession, reason to believe that income, profits or gains chargeable to income-tax have escaped assessment for any year, or have been under-assessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act, or that excessive loss or depreciation allowance have been computed, he may, at any time within four years of the end of that year serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements, which may be included in a notice under sub-s. (2) of s. 22, and may proceed to assess or reassess such income, profits or gains or recompute the loss or depreciation allowance, and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that sub-section ". It is clear that two conditions must be satisfied before the Income-tax Officer can act under s. 34(1)(b). He must have information in his possession, which, in the context, means that the relevant information must have come into his possession subsequent to the making of the assessment order in question and this information must lead to his belief that income chargeable to income-tax has escaped assessment for any year, or that it has been under-assessed or assessed at too low a rate or has been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act. Two questions are raised by Mr. Sastri under this sub-section in the present appeal. He contends that the relevant information means information as to facts and cannot include the decision of the Privy Council on a point of law; and he argues that, where income has been duly returned for assessment and an assessment order has been passed by the Income-tax Officer, it cannot be said that any income has escaped assessment within s. 34(1)(b). Thus the appellant's case is that both the conditions required by s. 34(1)(b) have not been satisfied and so the order of revised assessment passed against the appellant is illegal. It is not disputed-that, according to its strict literal' meaning, the word " information " may include knowledge even about a state of tile law or a decision on a point of law. The argument, however, is that the context requires that the word " information " should receive a narrower construction limiting it to facts or factual material as distinguished from information as to the true state of the law. In support of this argument Mr. Sastri referred to the marginal notes of ss. 19A and 20A as well as the province, s of s. 22(3) and s. 28 and urged that the information contemplated by these provisions is information as to facts or parti- culars and has no reference to the state of law or to any question of law; and so the said word in s. 34(1)(b) should be construed to mean only factual information. We are not impressed by this arguments If the word " information" used in any other provision of the Act denotes information as to facts or particulars, that would not necessarily determine the meaning of the said word in s. 34(1)(b). The denotation of the said word would naturally depend on the context of the particular provisions in which it is used. It is then contended that ss. 33B and 35 confer ample powers on the specified authorities to revise Income-tax Officer's orders and to rectify mistakes respectively and so it would be legitimate to construe the word "information " in s. 34(1)(b) strictly and to confine it to information in regard to facts or particulars. This argument also is not valid. If the word "information " in its plain grammatical meaning includes information as to facts as well as information as to the state of the law, it would be unreasonable to limit it to information as to the facts on the extraneous consideration that some cases of assessment which need to be revised or rectified on the ground of mistake of law may conceivably be covered by ss. 33B and 35. Besides, the application of these two sections is subject to the limi- tations prescribed by them; and so the fact that the said sections confer powers for revision or rectification would not be relevant and material in construing s. 34(1)(b). The explanation to s. 34 also does not assist the appellant. It is true that under the explanation production before the Income-tax Officer of account books or other evidence from which material facts could with due diligence have been discovered by the Income-tax Officer would not necessarily amount to disclosures within the meaning of the said section; but we do not see how this can have any bearing oil the construction of cl. (b) in s. 34(1). On the other hand, one of the cases specifically mentioned in s. 34(1)(b) necessarily postulates that the word "information" must have reference to information as to law. Where, in consequence of information in his possession, the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe that income has been assessed at too low a rate, he is empowered to revise the assessment; and there can be no doubt that the belief of the Income-tax Officer that any given income has been assessed at too low a rate may in many cases be due to information about the true legal position in the matter of the relevant rates. If the word " information " in reference to this class of cases must necessarily include information as to law, it is impossible to accept the argument that, in regard to the other cases falling under the same provision, the same word should have a narrower and a more limited meaning. We would accordingly hold that the word " information " in s. 34(1)(b) includes information as to the true and correct state of the law and so would cover information as to relevant judicial decisions. If that be the true position, the argument that the Income-tax Officer was not justified in treating the Privy Council decision in question as information within s. 34(1)(b) cannot be accepted.
in regard to the other condition prescribed by s. 34(1)(b). When can income be said to have escaped assessment? Mr. Sastri argued that the word "assessment " does not mean only the order of assessment, but it includes all steps taken for the purpose of levying the tax and during the process of taxation. That no doubt is true; but the wide denotation of the word " assessment" does not really assist the appellant; it only shows that along with the order of assessment which is an important act in the process of taxation, other acts and steps adopted in the course of taxation are also included in the word ; but it is with this " most critical act in the process of taxation " with which we are concerned in the present appeal. Then it is urged that the word "escaped "	Section
