Raghubansh Lal vs The State Of U. P on 20 February, 1957	Case Title
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal bAppeal No. 94 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 7, 1954, of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 647 of 1952 arising out of the judgment and order dated June 7, 1952, of the Court of Sessions Judge at Ghazipur in S. T. No. 11 of 1952.
G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent. 1957. February 20. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.-This is an appeal by Special leave under Art. 136 of the Constitution of India against the Judgment of the Allahabad High Court confirming the conviction of the Appellant Raghubansh Lal under s. 218 of the Indian Penal Code.	Issue
The offence for which the appellant was tried wag, that being a Patwari of village Arazi Mafi Pandai and thus a public servant, he "framed the khasra of 1358 F in respect of plots Nos. 170 and 74/1 of village Arazi Mafi Pandai", which he knew "to be incorrect with intent to cause or knowing to be likely that he would thereby cause an undue loss to Smt. Mahura Kunwar. "	Facts
H. J. Umrigar, for the appellant.	PetArg
Mr. Mathur founded his case also on s. 16 of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, (U.P. Act I of 1951), which provided that a person, who was recorded as an occupant of the land for the year 1356 F and who, on the date mentioned in the section was in possession of the land, shall be deemed to be a hereditary tenant of the land. But the entry complained of is not for the year 1356 F but for the year 1358 F, and this entry would not have been of any avail to Adit Pande for the purposes of s. 16 of the Zamindari Abolition Act. In the circumstances of the case it cannot be said that an offence under a. 218 has been committed by the appellant as in our opinion the prosecution has failed to prove the necessary criminal intention. In these circumstances, we would allow the appeal, ,set aside the order of conviction and acquit the accused. As a consequence the bail bond shall stand cancelled. Appeal allowed.	Conclusion
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal bAppeal No. 94 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 7, 1954, of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 647 of 1952 arising out of the judgment and order dated June 7, 1952, of the Court of Sessions Judge at Ghazipur in S. T. No. 11 of 1952.
H. J. Umrigar, for the appellant.
G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent. 1957. February 20. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.-This is an appeal by Special leave under Art. 136 of the Constitution of India against the Judgment of the Allahabad High Court confirming the conviction of the Appellant Raghubansh Lal under s. 218 of the Indian Penal Code.
The offence for which the appellant was tried wag, that being a Patwari of village Arazi Mafi Pandai and thus a public servant, he "framed the khasra of 1358 F in respect of plots Nos. 170 and 74/1 of village Arazi Mafi Pandai", which he knew "to be incorrect with intent to cause or knowing to be likely that he would thereby cause an undue loss to Smt. Mahura Kunwar. "
It is true that the High Court found that the accused knew of the litigation between Mahura Kuar and Adit Pande and in spite of this he had made an incorrect entry. But in order to sustain the conviction it is not sufficient that the entries are incorrect, it is essential that the entry should have been made with the intention mentioned in s. 218 of the Indian Penal Code. Direct evidence proving the necessary intention is, in this case, lacking and the circumstantial evidence is too meagre to support any safe conclusion as to the intention with which the appellant made the entry complained of. His case was that the sapurdar, Shubhkaran, never got possession from Adit Pande. Shubhkaran was not a witness, may be for the reason already stated, and it was contended that in the absence of the testimony of Shubhkaran the case of the prosecution cannot be held to have been proved at least it is not free from doubt. But the courts below have considered this fact and taking all the circum- stances into consideration have held in favour of the complainant on the question of possession. The question still remains whether the incorrect entries were made with the intent to cause or knowing it to be likely that the accused will thereby cause loss or injury to the complainant. It is difficult to see how any wrong entry in regard to the year 1358 F could cause any loss to the complainant. In this case the intention has' to be gathered from the act of the accused. The entry could not have been intended to create evidence -for being used against the complainant 7O1 in the proceedings under s. 145 Criminal Procedure Code, because according to the evidence on the record the entries were made somewhere in March and this could not have helped Adit Pande, as the magistrate had already decided the proceedings under s. 145 Criminal Procedure Code in December 1950, and had ordered possession to be delivered to the complainant, and, therefore, this entry could not affect the result of the proceeding under s. 145 Criminal Procedure Code.
Mr. Mathur founded his case also on s. 16 of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, (U.P. Act I of 1951), which provided that a person, who was recorded as an occupant of the land for the year 1356 F and who, on the date mentioned in the section was in possession of the land, shall be deemed to be a hereditary tenant of the land. But the entry complained of is not for the year 1356 F but for the year 1358 F, and this entry would not have been of any avail to Adit Pande for the purposes of s. 16 of the Zamindari Abolition Act. In the circumstances of the case it cannot be said that an offence under a. 218 has been committed by the appellant as in our opinion the prosecution has failed to prove the necessary criminal intention. In these circumstances, we would allow the appeal, ,set aside the order of conviction and acquit the accused. As a consequence the bail bond shall stand cancelled. Appeal allowed.	Total Judgement
